<doc id="41074259" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074259" title="South African constitutional litigation">
South African constitutional litigation

Constitutional litigation in South Africa is an area of the law in that country dealing with the rules and principles applicable to cases that involve constitutional matters. It examines the constitutional jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, the High Court and the Supreme Court of Appeal (and certain other specialist courts), and considers the various rules peculiar to these courts that are relevant to constitutional litigation, such as the admission of an "amicus curiae", the duty to raise a constitutional matter as early as possible in the proceedings, and the duty to join the relevant organ of state in a case involving a constitutional issue.

The Bill of Rights is “the principal source of substantive constraints on public power in the Constitution.” The Bill of Rights instructs the state to use the power that the Constitution gives it in ways that do not violate fundamental rights and that promote and fulfil those rights. Should it fail to comply with these instructions, it will act unconstitutionally; its actions or laws will be unlawful and invalid. Although the Constitution as a whole is mostly concerned with state power and with law, there are a number of provisions of the Bill of Rights that place duties on private individuals in certain circumstances.

One of the most important principles of South African law is expressed by the "maxim ubi ius ubi remedium": Where there is a right, there is a remedy. This means that the existence of a legal rule implies the existence of an authority with the power to grant a remedy if that rule is infringed. A legal rule will be deficient if there is no means of enforcing it, and if no sanction attaches to a breach of that rule. Litigation to enforce directly the Bill of Rights is one way in which breaches of the Bill may be remedied.

Direct Bill of Rights litigation is most conveniently analysed as taking place in distinct stages. There is an initial procedural stage, followed by a number of stages in which issues of substance are considered.

Initially, a court hearing a Bill-of-Rights case will be concerned with any procedural issues that might arise:


Often, however, these procedural aspects of the case will be uncontroversial and the court can proceed directly to the substance of the case. The first step in the substantive stage of the litigation involves interpreting the provisions in the Bill of Rights. The court must consider, by reference to the facts of the case, and to the interpretation of the Bill of Rights, whether a right has been violated. If the court does find that a right has been violated, it must then consider whether that violation is a justifiable limitation of the right. Finally, if the court finds that a violation of a right is not a justifiable limitation, it will have to consider the proper remedy to deal with the unconstitutional infringement of a fundamental right. At each distinct stage of the litigation, the court must consider whether the onus of proof is on the applicant or respondent.

Before a court may proceed to consider the issues of substance raised in human rights litigation, it must first consider a series of preliminary, procedural issues.

Application of the Bill of Rights concerns the issues of whether and how the Bill of Rights applies in a legal dispute. The first of these issues (whether the Bill of Rights applies) raises four questions:


Answering these questions involves determining the “reach” or “scope” of the Bill of Rights.

Application is concerned not only with whether the Bill of Rights applies, however, but also with how it applies in a legal dispute. The question here is this: What is the relationship between the Bill of Rights and the principles or rules of ordinary law? Currie and de Waal argue that the two application issues should be resolved in the following way:


Indirect application of the Bill of Rights must be considered before direct application. This is the result of the operation of the principle that constitutional issues should, where possible, be avoided. The principle of avoidance requires a court first to try to resolve a dispute by applying ordinary legal principles, as interpreted or developed with reference to the Bill of Rights, before applying the Bill of Rights directly to the dispute.

An important implication of the principle of avoidance is that the special rules in the Bill of Rights relating to the standing of litigants and the jurisdiction of the courts apply only when it is impossible to give effect to the values in the Bill of Rights by applying, interpreting or developing the ordinary law. Similarly, constitutional remedies are only relevant when the Bill of Rights is directly applied to an issue. If it is possible to resolve the dispute through indirect application, ordinary procedural rules and remedies apply to the dispute.

However, in order to apply the Bill of Rights indirectly, a court must obviously determine the effect of the provisions of the Bill of Rights. A court cannot interpret or develop the ordinary law with reference to the values contained in the Bill of Rights without knowing what they are. The interpretation of the Bill of Rights and its limitation clause therefore remain important, even when the Bill of Rights is indirectly applied.

In some cases, an applicant may lack standing to seek a remedy. In other cases, the issue may have become moot or academic and therefore not justiciable. An issue may also be non-justiciable because it is not yet ripe for decision by a court. The Bill of Rights contains special rules relating to these issues when it is directly applied. In such cases, it demands a broader approach to standing. In cases of indirect application, the ordinary legal rules apply.

In cases of indirect application, the ordinary procedural rules apply. The constitutional jurisdiction of the courts and the procedures that must be observed when the Bill of Rights is directly applied to law or conduct are not simply technical issues, but are of paramount importance for the protection of fundamental rights in practice. It is important to know in which forum to challenge an alleged violation of a right, since not all courts have the same jurisdiction in constitutional matters. If the court does not have the jurisdiction to grant the relief claimed, it must dismiss the application, whatever its merits may be.

At the substantive stage of Bill-of-Rights litigation, the court is concerned with the substance of the applicant's allegation that a right has been infringed by law, or by the conduct of the other party. The court must assess the merits of this allegation. This assessment primarily involves the interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution in general, and the Bill of Rights in particular.

The court must determine whether or not the Bill of Rights protects a particular interest of the applicant. It must then determine whether or not the law that has been challenged or the conduct of the respondent impairs that interest, thereby trespassing in an area protected by the Bill of Rights.

Fundamental rights and freedoms are not absolute: “Their boundaries are set by the rights of others and by the legitimate needs of society. Generally, it is recognised that public order, safety, health and democratic values justify the imposition of restrictions on the exercise of fundamental rights.” In the South African Constitution, a general limitation clause, section 36, sets out specific criteria for the restriction of the fundamental rights in the Bill of Rights. The clause is general because it applies in the same way to all the rights in the Bill of Rights. In this regard the Constitution differs from, for example, the United States Constitution, which does not contain a limitations clause at all. The German Bill of Rights does not have a general limitations clause, but it does contain specific limitations clauses attached to most of the fundamental rights.

The court, in determining whether or not a right has been unjustifiably infringed, undertakes what is

essentially a two-stage exercise. First, there is the threshold enquiry aimed at determining whether or not the enactment in question constitutes a limitation on one or other guaranteed right. This entails examining (a) the content and scope of the relevant protected right(s) and (b) the meaning and effect of the impugned enactment to see whether there is any limitation of (a) by (b). Subsections (1) and (2) of section 39 of the Constitution give guidance as to the interpretation of both the rights and the enactment, essentially requiring them to be interpreted so as to promote the value system of an open and democratic society based on human dignity, equality and freedom. If upon such analysis no limitation is found, that is the end of the matter. The constitutional challenge is dismissed there and then.

If, however, the court determines that a law, or the conduct of the respondent, impairs a fundamental right, “the second stage ensues. This is ordinarily called the limitations exercise.” It must then consider whether the infringement is nevertheless a justifiable limitation of the right in question: “In essence this requires a weighing-up of the nature and importance of the right(s) that are limited together with the extent of the limitation as against the importance and purpose of the limiting enactment.”

Not all laws or conduct that infringe fundamental rights are unconstitutional. Sometimes a law may be a justifiable limitation on a particular fundamental right. This means that, although the law or conduct infringes the right, the infringement (which is called a limitation) is justifiable. While infringing conduct itself cannot validly limit a fundamental right, the challenged conduct may be authorised by law. If the law passes the limitations test, the conduct it authorises will survive a constitutional challenge. The question, ultimately, which falls for determination by this balancing exercise is whether or not a balance can be struck? If not—if, that is, there is no proportionality—the limitation will not be found to be reasonable and justifiable in an open and democratic society.

In the case of the death penalty, for example, the purposes served by such a penalty—at least, the purposes as considered by the Constitutional Court in S v Makwanyane—are deterrence, prevention. and retribution. In serving these purposes, however, the impugned right is obliterated completely; its essential content, according to the Constitutional Court, is negated. There is, in other words, no proportionality between means and end.

One consequence of the inclusion of a general limitation clause in the Bill of Rights is that the process of considering the limitation of fundamental rights must be distinguished from that of interpretation of the rights. If it is argued that conduct or a provision of the law infringes a right in the Bill of Rights, it will first have to be determined whether that right has in fact been infringed, and thereafter whether the infringement is justified. The question of whether an infringement of a right is a legitimate limitation of that right “frequently involves a far more factual enquiry than the question of interpretation.” Appropriate evidence must be led to justify the limitation of a right in accordance with the criteria laid down in section 36. A court cannot determine in the abstract whether the limitation of a right is “reasonable” or “justifiable in an open and democratic society based on human dignity, equality and freedom.” This determination requires “evidence, such as sociological or statistical data,” on the impact that the legislative restriction has on society.

Should a court find that a right has been infringed, and that the infringement does not satisfy the test for a valid limitation of a right, the question of the appropriate remedy for the infringement arises. The constitutional remedies are only available when the Bill of Rights is directly applied. In cases of indirect application, ordinary legal remedies are used to give effect to the fundamental values in the Bill of Rights.

The Constitutional Court has dealt with the issue of onus, or burden of proof, by dividing the substantive stage of human-rights litigation into two further sub-stages:


The approach of the court to onus in respect of these stages is set out by Ackermann J in the following extract from Ferreira v Levin NO:

The task of determining whether the provisions of [an] Act are invalid because they are inconsistent with the guaranteed rights here under discussion involves two stages, first, an enquiry as to whether there has been an infringement of the [...] guaranteed right; if so, a further enquiry as to whether such infringement is justified under [...] the limitation clause. The task of interpreting the [...] fundamental rights rests, of course, with the Courts, but it is for the applicants to prove the facts upon which they rely for the claim of infringement of the particular right in question. Concerning the second stage, [it] is for the legislature or the party relying on the legislation to establish this justification [in terms of the limitation clause], and not for the party challenging it, to show that it was not justified.

This description focuses on the difference in onus relating to the questions of interpretation and limitation. The applicant has to show that an infringement of a right has taken place. This requires the applicant to prove the facts on which he relies. The respondent then has to show that an infringement is a justifiable limitation of the right in terms of section 36.

In addition to the applicant's onus at the substantive stage of litigation, the applicant must also show, at the preliminary stage of litigation,


Only once these issues have been decided in the applicant’ s favour, and a violation of the Bill of Rights is found, will the party relying on the validity of the challenged decision or legislation be called upon to justify it in terms of section 36, the limitation clause.

The question of who bears the onus when considering the appropriate relief for unconstitutional legislation or conduct is “more complicated.” When the Bill of Rights is indirectly applied, an ordinary legal remedy is granted, and the ordinary legal rules apply in respect of the burden of proof. When the Bill of Rights is directly applied, the remedy that flows from a finding of inconsistency between the Bill of Rights, on the one hand, and law or conduct, on the other, is invalidation by the court of the offending law or conduct. A party proposing a variation of this form of relief in terms of section 172(l)(b)(i) or (ii) must justify the request. Since section 172 allows a court to limit or suspend the effects of a declaration of invalidity, the respondent will in most cases be called upon to justify such a request. However, a court may also grant relief in addition to the declaration of invalidity, as in the case of an interdict or constitutional damages. In most cases, the applicant will request such relief, and will therefore bear the burden of persuasion.

The stages through which Bill-of-Rights litigation typically proceeds may be summarised as follows:

Does the Bill of Rights apply in the dispute between the parties? How does the Bill of Rights apply in the dispute?

As for the first question, it must be determined whether the applicant is entitled to claim the benefits of the Bill of Rights. It must also be determined whether the Bill of Rights applies to the conduct of the respondent, in the sense that the respondent has obligations under the Bill of Rights. Finally, it must be determined whether the cause of action arose in the national territory during the period of application of either the interim or 1996 Bill of Rights.

As for the second question, indirect application must be considered before direct application. If the Bill of Rights is indirectly applied to the issue, the questions of justiciability, jurisdiction and an appropriate remedy are resolved in terms of ordinary legal rules. If directly applied, special constitutional rules apply.

Is the issue to be decided justiciable? Does the applicant in the matter have standing in respect of the particular relief sought?

Does the court have jurisdiction to grant the relief claimed?

If the answer to all three questions is “yes,” the court is able to move on to the substantive stage.

Has the law or conduct of the respondent infringed a fundamental right of the applicant? If so, the court will consider whether the infringement is justifiable. If not, then the application must be dismissed.

Is the infringement a justifiable limitation of the right in question according to the criteria set out in section 36? If yes, then the conduct of the respondent is not unconstitutional; the application must be dismissed. If no, then the conduct is unconstitutional, and the question of the appropriate remedy must be canvassed.

What remedy is appropriate in this case?

The Bill of Rights applies directly to a legal dispute when


In addition, in instances when the Bill of Rights does not apply directly to a dispute, because one or more of the elements above is not present, it may apply indirectly. This is because all law must be developed, interpreted and applied in a way that conforms to the Bill of Rights.

A conceptual distinction, then, must be made between two forms of application of the Bill of Rights:


This distinction was of “decisive significance” under the interim Constitution. It has “comparatively less significance” under the 1996 Constitution. This is because of changes made to the jurisdictional and application scheme by the 1996 Constitution. There are nevertheless important consequences that follow from the form of application, and the distinction between direct and indirect application therefore “continues to play a role in constitutional litigation.”

The application of the Bill of Rights has been “one of the most troublesome issues in South African constitutional law.” The principal reason for the difficulty is that, since 1994, South Africa has had two Constitutions that have treated the issue differently. Much of the relevant jurisprudence, particularly relating to the application of the Bill of Rights to the common law, was decided under the interim Constitution and does not always bear precisely on the altered jurisdictional and application schemes of the 1996 Constitution.

The narrowest conception of a bill of rights is that it is a “charter of negative liberties.” This means that it is intended to protect individuals against state power by listing rights that cannot be violated by the state, either by means of law or through the conduct of state actors. This is the “vertical” relationship—between individuals and the state. A bill of rights that has solely vertical application will place duties on the state not to violate the rights of individuals. It will not place any similar duties on individuals.

According to the Constitutional Court, in Du Plessis v De Klerk, the Bill of Rights in Chapter 3 of the interim Constitution conformed to this traditional model, in so far as it had no direct application to so-called “horizontal” disputes: that is, to disputes between private litigants governed by the common law. “Constitutional rights under Chapter 3,” the court held, “may be invoked against an organ of government but not by one private litigant against another.” This was principally because of the absence of the word “judiciary” in section 7, the application section of the interim Constitution, which provided that the Bill of Rights “shall bind all legislative and executive organs of state at all levels of government.” The omission meant that the Bill of Rights placed duties to uphold constitutional rights only on the legislative and executive organs of state. Individuals were not directly bound by the Bill of Rights. Nor was the judiciary, which had the task of adjudicating and enforcing the rights and duties of individuals.

However, while the interim Bill of Rights did not apply directly to horizontal cases, it did have indirect application. The Bill of Rights applied to “all law in force,” including all pre- and post-1994 legislation and the uncodified common law (provisions of the common law which had not been incorporated into legislation). Even if individuals were not directly bound by the Bill of Rights, the courts had to interpret legislation, and develop the common law, so that the ordinary law recognised and protected the rights in the Bill of Rights. In Du Plessis v Klerk, the Constitutional Court held that the Bill of Rights in the Interim Constitution “may and should have an influence on the development of the common law as it governs relations between individuals.” This was provided for in section 35(3) of the interim Constitution: “In the interpretation of any law and the application and development of the common law and customary law, a court shall have due regard to the spirit, purport and objects of” the Bill of Rights. “In private litigation,” held the court, “any litigant may nonetheless contend that a statute (or executive act) relied on by the other party is invalid as being inconsistent with the limitations placed on legislature and executive under Chapter 3.” Accordingly, “as Chapter 3 applies to common law, governmental acts or omissions in reliance on the common law may be attacked by a private litigant as being inconsistent with Chapter 3 in any dispute with an organ of government.”

In Du Plessis, the Constitutional Court also decided a crucial jurisdictional issue. The court's conclusion that the Constitution distinguished between direct and indirect application of the Bill of Rights was bolstered by the close fit between this distinction and the “two-track” jurisdictional scheme of the interim Constitution, which distinguished between “constitutional matters” and other matters, the former being the preserve of the Constitutional Court, and the latter the preserve of the Appellate Division. The development of the common law was a non-constitutional matter, and therefore remained within the jurisdiction of the court that had overseen the development of the common law for the past century: the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. “The development of the common law,” held the court in Du Plessis, “is within the jurisdiction of the Appellate Division, but not of the Constitutional Court.”

With the Du Plessis decision in mind, and concerned that confining the Bill of Rights to direct vertical application amounted to the toleration of private violations of rights, the Constitutional Assembly created a different application and jurisdictional scheme in the 1996 Constitution. To provide for direct horizontal application, two textual changes were made. The first was the addition of the word “judiciary” in section 8(1), missing from the application provisions of the interim Constitution. The second was the imposition of a duty on individuals, in section 8(2), to uphold the rights of other individuals: “A provision of the Bill of Rights binds a natural or a juristic person if, and to the extent that, it is applicable, taking into account the nature of the right and the nature of any duty imposed by the right.”

The 1996 Constitution also made significant changes to the powers of the courts to enforce the Constitution. The “two-track” jurisdictional scheme of the interim Constitution was replaced by a unified scheme in which the High Courts, Supreme Court of Appeal and the Constitutional Court shared jurisdiction over constitutional matters. This scheme required revision of the holding in Du Plessis that the application of the Constitution to the common law was a non-constitutional matter. Under the 1996 Constitution, the Constitutional Court held in the Pharmaceutical Manufacturers case, “there are not two systems of law, each dealing with the same subject matter, each having similar requirements, each operating in its own field with its own highest court. There is only one system of law. It is shaped by the Constitution which is the supreme law, and all law, including the common law, derives its force from the Constitution and is subject to constitutional control.”

While clearly envisaging direct horizontal application in applicable cases, the 1996 Bill of Rights also requires the courts to apply the Bill of Rights indirectly, in similar terms to section 35(3) of the interim Constitution. This is section 39(2): “When interpreting any legislation, and when developing the common law or customary law, every court, tribunal or forum must promote the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights.”

To summarise, the 1996 Constitution, like its predecessor, distinguishes two forms of application of the Bill of Rights:


Like its predecessor, the 1996 Constitution provides for direct vertical application of the Bill of Rights but, unlike its predecessor, does not confine itself to this form of direct application. Section 8(2) clearly envisages direct application of the Bill of Rights in the horizontal relationship in certain circumstances.

There are four elements that are determinative of the direct application of the Bill of Rights. The first relates to beneficiaries, the second to the duties imposed by the Bill of Rights, the third to time and the fourth to the limited territorial effect of the Bill of Rights.

Legal rights are a correlative relationship. If Armand has a legal right to something, this postulates that Theo has a legal duty to Armand to uphold that right. Armand is therefore the beneficiary of the right and Theo is the duty-bearer in respect of the right. The first application issue to confront when considering the reach of the Bill of Rights is to identify the beneficiaries and the duty-bearers of the rights in the Bill of Rights.

Most of the rights in the Bill of Rights are for the benefit of “everyone.” The negative phrase, which is to the same effect, is that a right may be denied to “no-one.” For example, section 11 provides that “everyone has the right to life.” Section 13 is phrased negatively but, like section 11, accords the right universally: “No one may be subjected to slavery, servitude or forced labour.” Rights phrased in this way are accorded to all natural persons within the territory of the Republic.

Other rights are accorded to narrower categories of beneficiaries. The political rights in section 19, the citizens’ rights in section 20, certain of the freedom-of-movement rights in section 21, and the freedom-of-trade right in section 22, are accorded to “every citizen.” The right to vote and to stand for political office, in section 19(3), is restricted to “every adult citizen.” Further examples of restrictions on the category of beneficiaries are the cultural rights contained in section 31, which are for the benefit only of “persons belonging to a cultural, religious or linguistic community.” The rights contained in section 35 are restricted to arrested, detained and accused persons.

The restriction of a right to a particular category of beneficiaries is an attempt to circumscribe the scope of the right. A right accorded only to citizens obviously has a more limited scope of operation than a right accorded universally. The circumscription of rights in this manner “does not really concern the application of the rights, but may raise difficult issues of interpretation.” The courts will have to interpret the Bill of Rights to determine who is, for example, a “detained person,” or “a worker,” or a “person belonging to a cultural religious or linguistic community.” The activities of persons who are excluded from the scope of a right will not be protected by the right.

Are the rights accorded to “everyone” also available for the benefit of juristic persons? In other words, are companies protected by the Bill of Rights? What about state-owned or state-controlled corporations such as Eskom or the SABC? These questions are answered by reference to s 8(4): “A juristic person is entitled to the rights in the Bill of Rights to the extent required by the nature of the rights and the nature of that juristic person.”

In order to decide whether a juristic person is protected, regard must be had to two factors:


In Ex Parte Chairperson of the Constitutional Assembly: In Re Certification of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa, an objection was raised that, inconsistently with Constitutional Principle II, the extension of the rights guaranteed by the Bill of Rights to juristic persons would diminish the rights of natural persons. This Constitutional Court rejected the objection in the following terms:

Many “universally accepted fundamental rights” will be fully recognised only if afforded to juristic persons as well as natural persons. For example, freedom of speech, to be given proper effect, must be afforded to the media, which are often owned or controlled by juristic persons. While it is true that some rights are not appropriate to enjoyment by juristic persons, the text of s 8(4) specifically recognises this. The text also recognises that the nature of a juristic person may be taken into account by a court in determining whether a particular right is available to such person or not.

The nature of some of the fundamental rights prevents them from benefiting juristic persons. The rights to life and physical integrity, and to human dignity, for example, cannot sensibly be applied to juristic persons. A company cannot claim protection of its right to life or human dignity, or its right not to be deprived of liberty or tortured, “because these rights protect aspects of human existence that a company does not possess.” However, the nature of most of the rights that are likely to be relied on by juristic persons makes them applicable to the protection of juristic persons. However, in the case of rights that stem from the protection of human dignity (such as privacy), the Constitutional Court has indicated, in Investigating Directorate: Serious Economic Offences and Others v Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd In re: Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd v Smit NO, that juristic persons are entitled only to a reduced level of protection compared to natural persons:

Privacy is a right which becomes more intense the closer it moves to the intimate personal sphere of the life of human beings, and less intense as it moves away from that core. This understanding of the right flows [...] from the value placed on human dignity by the Constitution. Juristic persons are not the bearers of human dignity. Their privacy rights, therefore, can never be as intense as those of human beings. However, this does not mean that juristic persons are not protected by the right to privacy. Exclusion of juristic persons would lead to the possibility of grave violations of privacy in our society, with serious implications for the conduct of affairs. The state might, for instance, have free licence to search and seize material from any non-profit organisation or corporate entity at will. This would obviously lead to grave disruptions and would undermine the very fabric of our democratic state. Juristic persons therefore do enjoy the right to privacy, although not to the same extent as natural persons.

It is the second of section 8(4)’s criteria (the nature of the juristic person) that may place greater restrictions on the availability of human rights to juristic persons. “It is difficult to see,” write Currie and De Waal,

how organs of state exercising core government functions such as Parliament, a cabinet minister or the police will ever be able to rely on the protection of the Bill of Rights. Although arguably they are ‘juristic persons’, the nature of such organs of state makes them unsuitable to be beneficiaries of fundamental rights. They are not used by individuals for the collective exercise of their fundamental rights, but are instead used by the state for the exercise of its powers.”

However, state-owned corporations, such as the South African Broadcasting Corporation or the Post Office, or entities such as universities, which are set up by the state for the purpose, amongst other things, of realising particular fundamental rights, are differently situated: “Clearly a state-owned corporation like the SABC should be able to invoke the right to freedom of speech and the press when it becomes involved in a dispute with the state or even with an individual.” In Hoffmann v South African Airways, the Constitutional Court held,

Transnet is a statutory body, under the control of the state, which has public powers and performs public functions in the public interest. It was common cause that SAA is a business unit of Transnet. As such, it is an organ of state and is bound by the provisions of the Bill of Rights in terms of section 8(1), read with section 239, of the Constitution. It is, therefore, expressly prohibited from discriminating unfairly.

As for private juristic persons, the size or activities of the juristic person are not necessarily decisive. Of greater significance, in the view of Currie and De Waal, is “the relationship between the activities of the juristic person and the fundamental rights of the natural persons who stand behind the juristic person.” In other words, juristic persons are not in and of themselves worthy of protection; they become so when they are used by natural persons for the collective exercise of their fundamental rights. For example, companies are routinely used by individuals as an entity for conducting business, necessitating the exercise of property rights by companies. As the Constitutional Court put it in First National Bank of SA Limited t/a Wesbank v Commissioner for the South African Revenue Services,

It is trite that a company is a legal entity altogether separate and distinct from its members, that its continued existence is independent of the continued existence of its members, and that its assets are its exclusive property. Nevertheless, a shareholder in a company has a financial interest in the dividends paid by the company and in its success or failure because she “... is entitled to an aliquot share in the distribution of the surplus assets when the company is wound up” No matter how complex the holding structure of a company or groups of companies may be, ultimately—in the vast majority of cases—the holders of shares are natural persons.

The court also commented on “the universal phenomenon” that “natural persons are increasingly forming companies and purchasing shares in companies for a wide variety of legitimate purposes, including earning a livelihood, making investments and for structuring a pension scheme.” The use of companies, the court found, “has come to be regarded as indispensable for the conduct of business, whether large or small. It is in today’s world difficult to conceive of meaningful business activity without the institution and utilisation of companies.” The court saw that “denying companies entitlement to property rights,” even more so than in relation to the right to privacy, would

“lead to grave disruptions and would undermine the very fabric of our democratic State.” It would have a disastrous impact on the business world generally, on creditors of companies and, more especially, on shareholders in companies. The property rights of natural persons can only be fully and properly realised if such rights are afforded to companies as well as to natural persons.

What section 8(4) envisages is that there should be a link between protecting the activity of the juristic person and protecting the fundamental rights of the natural persons that lie behind it.

Much of the debate about the meaning of the guidelines contained in section 8(4)—that is, “the nature of the right” and “the nature of the juristic person”—is made “irrelevant,” write Currie and De Waal, by the courts’ approach to standing in constitutional litigation. A person has standing to challenge the constitutionality of laws or conduct,


The first enquiry is objective: It is sufficient to show that a right in the Bill of Rights is violated by a law or conduct; it is not necessary to show that a right of the applicant has been violated. This approach allows anyone with a sufficient interest to rely on the objective inconsistency between the Bill of Rights and a law or conduct. For example, it will seldom be necessary for juristic persons to invoke section 8(4), which sometimes extends the protection of the right to the juristic person itself. Laws, and many forms of state and private conduct, inevitably impact on the activities of both natural and juristic persons. Provided that a juristic person has a sufficient interest of its own, or, if it is an association, a sufficient interest of its members, it may challenge such laws or conduct on the basis of fundamental rights that do not necessarily benefit the juristic person. For example, a law which prohibits the sale of wine on Sunday may be challenged by a company on the basis of the right to freedom of religion, provided that the company has a sufficient interest in the outcome of the litigation. It is not necessary in such a case for the company to show that the right to freedom of religion benefits juristic persons.

It is only when a law or conduct impacts solely on the activities of juristic persons that it will not be possible to follow this course of action. Then there can be no objective inconsistency between the Bill of Rights and the law or conduct, unless section 8(4) extends protection of the relevant right to juristic persons. For example, when a special tax on companies is challenged, a person challenging the tax will have to do so on the basis of a right that benefits juristic persons.

Waiver may be considered an application issue, and can be accommodated under the consideration of the beneficiaries of the Bill of Rights in that someone who has waived a right has agreed that he will not claim the benefit of it. Although the distinction may be difficult to make in some cases, the waiver of fundamental rights should be distinguished from a decision not to exercise a fundamental right. Where a person chooses not to take part in an assembly, or not to join an association, he cannot later complain about a violation of his rights to freedom of assembly or association. The same applies when an arrested person makes an informed choice to co-operate with the police by making a statement or a confession, or when a person allows the police to search his or her home: “Such a person cannot subsequently object at the trial that the introduction of the evidence violates his or her right to remain silent or his or her right to privacy of the home.” In principle, the accused may nevertheless object to the use of the evidence if it would render the trial unfair. In the absence, however, of other circumstances—for example, that the accused was improperly persuaded to co-operate—“it is difficult to see why the use of the evidence would result in an unfair trial.”

Waiver is different. One is dealing with waiver when someone undertakes not to exercise a fundamental right in future. For example, a contractual restraint of trade is an undertaking to waive one's right, guaranteed by section 22, to occupational freedom for a period of time. A person may also undertake not to disclose sensitive information, or undertake to vote for a particular political party on election day; he may agree to have his telephone calls recorded and listened to by his or her employer, or to attend religious instruction classes in a private school. These are, respectively, attempts to waive the rights to freedom of expression, to vote, to privacy and to freedom of religion. The question is whether people may be obliged to honour such an undertaking even if they subsequently change their minds.

A waiver, write Currie and De Waal, “cannot make otherwise unconstitutional laws or conduct constitutional and valid.” Section 2 of the Constitution provides that law or conduct inconsistent with the Constitution is invalid. This is an objective consideration: “The actions of the beneficiary of the right can have no influence on the invalidity of unconstitutional law or conduct.” That is why a person cannot validly undertake to behave unconstitutionally; such an undertaking will have no force and effect.

Similarly, a person cannot waive the indirect application of the Bill of Rights. Two people may not undertake, for example, that the law of defamation must be applied in future disputes between them without any reference to the Bill of Rights. The reason for this is that section 39(2) requires the courts to promote the Bill of Rights when developing the common law. Individuals may not prevent the court from fulfilling its constitutional obligations.

What individuals may do is to waive the right to exercise a fundamental right. The individual may undertake not to invoke the constitutional invalidity of state or private conduct. Although, “from a constitutional point of view, such a waiver is hardly ever decisive of an issue,” nonetheless “it is also seldom irrelevant.” Although waiver is dealt with here as an issue of application, “we do not mean to suggest that it must be answered by simply asking whether the individual may exclude him or herself from the ‘benefits’ of a particular fundamental right in the circumstances of the case.” Waiver, and more generally, victim responsibility, may also influence the limitation stage and the remedy that a court will award for breach of the fundamental right.

The effect of waiver depends firstly on the nature and purpose of the fundamental right in question. In principle, many of the freedom rights may be waived as long as the undertaking is made clearly and freely, and without the subject’s being placed under duress or labouring under a misapprehension: “To be enforceable, however, it would have to be a fully informed consent and one clearly showing that the applicant was aware of the exact nature and extent of the rights being waived in consequence of such consent.”

For example, the right to occupational freedom is often waived by employees when concluding a contract of employment. There is also no reason why one cannot waive the right to privacy. Similarly, one may validly undertake not to demonstrate, not to join a political party, or not to leave the Republic. One may also waive many of the procedural rights, such as the right to legal representation or the right of access to court. As far as these rights are concerned, it is not so much the nature of the right that may be decisive, “but the length of the period of the waiver, the danger of abuse and the position of the beneficiary.” The waiver may not be contrary to some other constitutional principle or otherwise contra bonos mores.

In contrast to the freedom rights, the nature of the rights to human dignity, to life, and not to be discriminated against, or the right to a fair trial, does not permit them to be waived: “Unlike the freedom rights, these rights cannot be exercised negatively.” The right to freedom of expression, for example, can be exercised by keeping quiet, but the right to dignity cannot be exercised by being abused. One cannot therefore assume that the right is exercised when it is waived (as one can, subject to the above considerations, with the freedom rights).

Although some rights may not be waived, this does not mean that the fact of waiver then becomes legally irrelevant. Waiver may also be relevant when considering the remedy to be awarded for the violation of a fundamental right. For example, a court would not enforce an undertaking to vote for a particular political party, but it would also probably not grant relief for such a violation of the right to vote, other than to declare the agreement to be invalid. On the other hand, if a person is prevented from voting against his or her will, “it may well be appropriate to award damages for the infringement.”

“An interesting illustration” of some of the principles discussed above is provided by Garden Cities Inc Association v Northpine Islamic Society. The High Court granted an interdict enforcing a contractual undertaking not to use loud-speaking equipment to broadcast calls to prayer from a suburban mosque. An undertaking not to use any amplification equipment had been given by the respondent in 1986, in the deed of the sale of the land on which the mosque was built. Despite the contract, the respondent started broadcasting amplified calls to prayer through a loudspeaker, and the applicants applied for an interdict to stop it.

The argument of the respondent was that enforcing the contract would amount to a violation of the constitutional right to freedom of religion, and that the Constitution did not permit the waiver of a fundamental aspect of one's religion. Conradie J was able to avoid the waiver issue by holding that amplification of the call to prayer had not been shown to be a fundamental precept of the Islamic faith, and that the agreement therefore did not infringe the right to religious freedom. Currie and De Waal, however, argue

that it was not necessary for the court to decide on what constitutes a “fundamental precept” of the respondent’s religion. If the respondent had waived its right to practice its religion in this way, it would have made the decision itself. But it is in any event doubtful that the waiver would have been binding since it cannot have qualified as having been given in full knowledge of the freedom that is being surrendered. In "Northpine" the undertaking was made in 1986, at a time when there was no constitutionally protected right to religious freedom. It is therefore not feasible to argue that a properly informed waiver of rights took place, since the right in question did not exist at the time.

Traditionally, a bill of rights confines itself to regulating the “vertical” relationship between the individual and the state. This is not a relationship of equality. The state is far more powerful than any individual. If not protected by a bill of rights against abuse of the state's powers, the individual would be “in an extremely vulnerable position.” The 1996 Bill of Rights performs this traditional task of protecting individuals against the state by imposing a duty on all branches of the state to respect its provisions.

The 1996 Bill of Rights goes further than is traditional, however. It recognises that “private abuse of human rights may be as pernicious as violations perpetrated by the state.” For this reason, the Bill of Rights is not confined to protecting individuals against the state. In certain circumstances, the Bill of Rights directly protects individuals against abuses of their rights by other individuals, by providing for the direct horizontal application of the Bill of Rights.

The direct application of the duties under the Bill of Rights is governed by section 8. Broadly speaking, section 8(1) deals with direct vertical application. It describes the circumstances in which law and conduct of the state may be challenged for being inconsistent with the Bill of Rights. Section 8(2), on the other hand, deals with direct horizontal application. It sets out the circumstances in which the conduct of private individuals may be attacked for infringing the Bill of Rights. Section 8(3) grants powers to the courts to remedy such infringements.

We are concerned at this point with direct application. Recall, though, that the Bill of Rights also applies indirectly on both the vertical and horizontal axes. Indirect application means that, instead of the Bill of Rights’ directly imposing duties and conferring rights, rights and duties are instead imposed by the common law or legislation. In turn, the development and interpretation of the common law and legislation is influenced by the Bill of Rights.

Section 8(1) provides that the legislature, the executive, the judiciary and all organs of state are bound by the Bill of Rights. An applicant may therefore challenge the conduct of any of these state institutions as a breach of their duties under the Bill of Rights.

The term “legislature” refers to the institutions that exercise the legislative authority of the Republic: Parliament, the provincial legislatures and the municipal councils. The primary duty of all of these bodies, and their principal form of conduct, is legislating. The output of the legislative process—legislation of the central, provincial and local governments, as well as any form of delegated legislation—must comply with the Bill of Rights. This is because, in the words of section 8(1), the Bill of Rights “applies to all law.”

As far as conduct of the legislatures other than law-making is concerned, the implication of section 8(1) is that legislatures and their committees and functionaries are bound by the Bill of Rights when they perform non-legislative functions, such as the determination of internal arrangements, proceedings, rules and procedures. In De Lille v Speaker of the National Assembly, the High Court stated:

The National Assembly is subject to the supremacy of the Constitution. It is an organ of state and therefore it is bound by the Bill of Rights. All its decisions and acts are subject to the Constitution and the Bill of Rights. Parliament can no longer claim supreme power subject to limitations imposed by the Constitution. It subject in all respects to the provisions of our Constitution [... T]he nature and exercise of parliamentary privilege must be consonant with the Constitution. The exercise of parliamentary privilege which is clearly a constitutional power is not immune from judicial review. If a parliamentary privilege is exercised in breach of a constitutional provision, redress may be sought by an aggrieved party from law courts whose primary function is to protect rights of individuals.

The Bill of Rights binds the “executive [...] and all organs of state.” This means that conduct of the executive and organs of state can be tested against any of the provisions of the Bill of Rights, with the exception of section 33, which can only be applied to conduct of the executive and organs of state that amounts to “administrative action.” Although the executive and organs of state are primarily responsible for executing the law, it must be kept in mind that the Bill of Rights also binds these actors when they make law. All delegated legislation may therefore be directly tested against the Bill of Rights for this reason, and for the reason that the Bill of Rights applies to “all law.”

The “executive” may be taken to refer to the party-political appointees who collectively head the government, whether at the national or provincial level. At the national level of government, for example, the executive consists of the President, the Deputy President, the Ministers and the Deputy Ministers. On this definition, “it is difficult to envisage conduct of the ‘executive’ that would not also amount to conduct of an ‘organ of state’ as defined in s 239.”

The phrase “organ of state” is defined in section 239 of the Constitution. In terms of this definition, the conduct of organs of state may be divided into three categories:


A court or a judicial officer is specifically excluded from the definition.

The first category refers to any department of state or administration in the national, provincial or local spheres of government. When read in context, the implication of this provision is that state departments (or the administration) are bound by the Bill of Rights whether they exercise a power in terms of legislation or act in another capacity. State departments will therefore be bound by the Bill of Rights when, for example, they decide whether to enter into contracts.

By providing that the exercise of a power or the performance of a function in terms of the Constitution, or of a provincial constitution, amounts to conduct of an organ of state, section 239 makes it clear that the exercise of constitutional executive powers (previously referred to as “prerogative powers”) may be challenged for consistency with the Bill of Rights.

Finally, a functionary or an institution qualifies as an “organ of state” in terms of s 239 when it exercises a public power or performs a public function in terms of legislation. This provision means, first, that the functionary or the institution must derive powers from a statute or perform a function in terms of a statute (as opposed to merely being incorporated pursuant to a statute, such as all companies and close corporations are). Secondly, it means that the nature of the power or function (and not the nature of the functionary or institution) must be “public.” The phrase “public power” is used in section 239 of the Constitution, but it is not defined there. It has gained wide currency in the constitutional jurisprudence, but definition or theorisation of the concept are seldom ventured, “because of its difficulty and abstraction.” The concept is best understood as occupying similar terrain to the concept of “public law.” Like public law, which operates in distinction to private law, public power operates “in necessary but sometimes fuzzy distinction to an opposite—private power.” Currie and De Waal propose the following understanding of public power:

Public power is power with a state-like dimension—either because it derives from the state or because it does what the state typically does—exercise power in a general and public-regarding way. The term therefore connotes use of the state’s lawfully derived powers of regulation and compulsion. It is to be distinguished from exercises of what can be called private power—the domain of voluntary obligations.

When the members of the judiciary (judges and magistrates) act in a judicial capacity—that is to say, when they adjudicate legal disputes—they are required to conduct themselves in a manner that complies with the Bill of Rights. Some provisions of the Bill of Rights, such as section 35(5), which provides for the exclusion of evidence in certain circumstances, are indeed specifically directed at the conduct of the judiciary when presiding over criminal trials. When members of the judiciary perform administrative actions, they are also bound to comply with the administrative-justice right in section 33.

The difficult issue is to determine the extent to which the judiciary is bound when it makes law. Every court decision may be considered to become part of the common law and add to the common law (unless and until it is overturned by a higher court or the legislature). If this is so, “it can be argued that no court may give legal effect to private conduct that is inconsistent with the Bill of Rights.” This means that, for practical purposes, private persons will then always be bound to the Bill of Rights, because they will be unable to seek the assistance of the courts to enforce their unconstitutional conduct.

However, this argument has been rejected by the Constitutional Court, on the basis that it would make section 8(2) and (3) redundant. The 1996 Constitution specifically provides that private individuals are directly bound by the Bill of Rights in some instances, not in every instance. This means, in effect, that common-law rules and principles may only be directly tested against the Bill of Rights in so far as they are relied upon by actors who are directly bound by the Bill of Rights. Whenever such an actor, private or state, is bound, the Bill of Rights becomes directly applicable law which overrides the common law in so far as it is inconsistent with the Bill of Rights. In disputes between private parties regulated by common law, the extent to which the Bill of Rights applies to private conduct therefore determines its reach or direct application to the common law.

Like its predecessor, the 1996 Constitution provides for direct vertical application of the Bill of Rights but, unlike its predecessor, is not confined to this form of direct application. Section 8(2) clearly envisages direct application of the Bill of Rights in the horizontal relationship in certain circumstances, and therefore “points unequivocally toward a much broader conception of direct application.” The 1996 Constitution also still permits, however, in section 39(2) (as the Interim Constitution did in section 35(3)), indirect application of the Bill of Rights in horizontal cases.

The presence of section 39(2), as Kentridge AJ stated, “prophetically,” in Du Plessis v De Klerk, “makes much of the vertical-horizontal debate irrelevant.” Since Du Plessis, the courts have routinely approached the issue of the effect of the Bill of Rights on the common law indirectly. The invitation of section 8(2)—to apply rights directly in horizontal situations—was “snubbed.”

For a while, therefore, direct horizontality, “this deliberate innovation in the Constitution,” threatened “to become a dead letter.” As Iain Currie and Johan de Waal observe, “Certainly, one attraction of indirect application was that courts did not have to confront the opacity and apparent circularity of s 8 (the Bill of Rights was to be applied to private actors ‘where applicable’).” Whatever the reasons, indirect horizontality provided the default form of application by which the courts approached the common law. The trouble with this was that, besides rendering section 8(2) of the Constitution “irrelevant,” the “model of indirect application or, if you will indirect horizontality,” as Kentridge AJ pointed out in Du Plessis, “seems peculiarly appropriate to a judicial system which, as in Germany, separates constitutional jurisdiction from ordinary jurisdiction.” But, under the 1996 Constitution, and in a deliberate alteration of the position under the interim Constitution, South Africa no longer separates constitutional jurisdiction from ordinary jurisdiction. Moreover, indirect application suggests that there is a body of common law that is “conceptually separate from the Constitution, exercising a mediating influence between the actors to whom it applies and the Constitution. This,” write Currie and De Waal, “is difficult to accommodate” in the remodelled constitutional system in which there is “only one system of law.”

The question of direct application was definitively settled by O’Regan J in Khumalo v Holomisa, “an extremely significant decision,” where she held that “the right to freedom of expression is of direct horizontal application” to the law of defamation. By implication and in principle, that holding extends to other areas of private law. This case, the Constitutional Court's first use of the direct-horizontality provisions of the 1996 Constitution,

might be read as bringing to end the long reign of indirect application of the Bill of Rights to the common law. It holds (although admittedly not in so many words) that the Bill of Rights must be applied directly to the common law wherever appropriate. It should be directly applied, in other words, in many (perhaps most) of the horizontal cases that have previously been treated as indirect application cases (ie, cases involving private litigants relying on common-law provisions).

Khumalo, writes Stu Woolman, “committed the Constitutional Court to the proposition that common-law rules—whether challenged in disputes between the state and private parties or in disputes between private parties—were subject to the direct application of the Bill of Rights.”

However, despite Khumalo, indirect horizontal application “has proven to be extremely robust and remains the preferred judicial method for dealing with rights claims in the horizontal dimension.”

In its only other encounter with direct horizontality, in Barkhuizen v Napier, the Constitutional Court declined to apply the Bill of Rights directly to a challenge to a time-limitation clause in an insurance contract. An insurance company had rejected an insurance claim on the grounds that, at the time of the accident, the vehicle was being used for business purposes, despite its being insured for private use only. Two years after the rejection of the claim, the insured issued summons against the insurance company for the insured amount. The summons was met with a special plea that a term of the insurance policy required any summons to be served within ninety days of the rejection of the claim. In his replication, the insured argued that the term requiring him to issue a summons within ninety days was a breach of section 34 of the Constitution.

This gave the Constitutional Court the opportunity to consider what it termed the “proper approach” to the determination of constitutional validity of contractual clauses concluded between private parties. The High Court had considered the matter as an instance of direct application of section 34 to the contract, and had held that the impugned term of the contract was in conflict with the right. The clause, it held, was a law of general application, because it was underpinned by the principle of pacta sunt servanda. This analysis permitted the High Court to consider whether the limitation of section 34 by the contract was a justifiable limitation of the right. It was held not to be; the clause was declared invalid.

The Constitutional Court expressed “grave doubt” about this approach, which entailed “testing the validity of a contractual term directly against a provision in the Bill of Rights.” Instead, the approach ordinarily to be adopted entailed indirect application via the principle that contracts that are contrary to public policy are unenforceable. This principle must be understood to be “deeply rooted in our Constitution and the values that underlie it.” This meant that

what public policy is and whether a term in a contract is contrary to public policy is now to be determined by reference to the values that underlie our constitutional democracy as given expression by the provisions of the Bill of Rights. Thus a term in a contract that is inimical to the values enshrined in our Constitution is contrary to public policy and therefore unenforceable [...]. This approach leaves space for the doctrine of pacta sunt servanda to operate, but at the same time allows courts to decline to enforce contractual terms that are in conflict with the constitutional values even though the parties may have consented to them.

The view of Currie and De Waal is that Barkhuizen “largely renders s 8(2) nugatory.” The Constitution applies to all law and, in the case of the common law (“the courts’ own law”), the default approach of the courts is to assess its constitutionality and to develop it where necessary by way of the indirect application methodology set out below. “The only remaining reason” to deploy direct horizontal application would be to take advantage of the holding of the Supreme Court of Appeal in Afrox Healthcare v Strydom, to the effect that courts in direct-application cases are not bound by pre-1994 decisions.

See also in this regard Barkhuizen v Napier (See its consideration especially of pacta sunt servanda) and Fraser v ABSA.

The Bill of Rights binds private persons in certain circumstances. According to section 8(2), a provision of the Bill of Rights applies to the conduct of a private person or a juristic person only to the extent that the provision is applicable, taking into account the nature of the right and the nature of any duty imposed by the right. It binds a private or juristic person, in other words, if it is applicable to a private or juristic person. This, it has been noted, is almost tautological.

In "Khumalo", the Constitutional Court had regard to what it described as the “intensity of the constitutional right in question.” The meaning of this phrase, which Currie and De Waal regard as “opaque,” appears in context “to have something to do with the scope of the right.” The applicants were members of the media (who are expressly identified as bearers of the constitutional right to freedom of expression). The second factor considered by the court was the “potential of invasion of that right by persons other than the State.” The result was a holding that the right to freedom of expression was horizontally applicable in a defamation case.

In the view of Currie and De Waal, these two factors form part of a broader inquiry, consisting of five general considerations that must be kept in mind when interpreting s 8(2):


Subject to the five considerations discussed above, “it may be said,” write Currie and De Waal, that the nature of citizenship rights, the right to just administrative action, and the rights of detained, arrested and accused persons, generally preclude them from being directly applied to private conduct. Also, the nature of the positive duties imposed by the right to have legislative and other measures taken to protect the environment, to realise the right to housing, the right to health care, food, water and social security, and the right to education, “would usually result in them not being applicable to private conduct.” The remaining rights in the Bill of Rights can, depending on the circumstances of a particular case, be applied directly horizontally, so as to impose duties on private individuals to conform their conduct to the Bill of Rights.

An unconstitutional law becomes invalid at the moment the Constitution comes into effect. This is the effect of the supremacy clause of the Constitution: All law and conduct inconsistent with the Constitution is invalidated by it. When making an order of invalidity, a court simply declares invalid what has already been made invalid by the Constitution. This means that an unconstitutional law in force at the time of commencement of the interim Constitution is invalidated by the interim Constitution with effect from 27 April 1994: “If the law is challenged in litigation brought during the period of operation of the 1996 Constitution, the invalidity of the law should be assessed in terms of the interim Constitution.”

The doctrine described above is known as “objective constitutional invalidity.” It means that an applicant will always have a choice between the interim and 1996 Constitutions when challenging old-order (pre-1994) laws. In other words, “nothing prevents an applicant whose cause of action arose after the commencement of the 1996 Constitution came into force from arguing that an old-order law was invalidated by the interim Constitution.” For example, in Prince v President, Cape Law Society, the Constitutional Court held, in litigation brought under the 1996 Constitution, that the requirement in the Supreme Court Act that eleven judges of appeal sit in cases in which the validity of an Act of Parliament was in question was inconsistent with the interim Constitution. According to the Constitutional Court, the quorum requirement in the Supreme Court Act was in conflict with the interim Constitution, which expressly provided that the Appellate Division lacked jurisdiction to enquire into the constitutional validity of legislation. To the extent that the Supreme Court Act provided that the Appellate Division had jurisdiction to adjudicate the constitutionality of Acts of Parliament, it was invalid. Moreover, it had been invalid since the moment of commencement of the interim Constitution on 27 April 1994.

“Clearly,” write Currie and De Waal, “there is no difficulty with the application of the rule in "Prince" if the interim Constitution and 1996 Constitution contain substantively identical provisions.” If law in force at the time of commencement of the interim Constitution violates that Constitution, it is invalid with effect from April 27, 1994, and will remain an invalid violation of the 1996 Constitution, notwithstanding the repeal of the interim Constitution by its successor. "Prince", however, confronts the situation of a law invalidated by a provision of the interim Constitution that has no equivalent in its successor. The 1996 Constitution granted the SCA the constitutional jurisdiction that it had been denied under the interim Constitution, including jurisdiction to adjudicate on the constitutional validity of Acts of Parliament. Did this mean that section 12(1)(b) was resuscitated? The Constitutional Court's answer was no:

Once section 12(1)(b) became invalid because of its inconsistency with the interim Constitution, it could not be validated simply by the fact that under the Constitution the SCA now has constitutional jurisdiction. Section 168(2) of the Constitution which stipulates that the quorum of the SCA shall be determined by an Act of Parliament must therefore, in the absence of the proviso in section 12(l)(b), refer, at present, to section 12(1) of the Supreme Court Act which determines that the ordinary quorum of that Court shall be five judges. This result is consistent with the new constitutional order. Section 12(l)(b) of the Supreme Court Act was enacted at a time when the SCA was the highest court of appeal. That is no longer the case. Its decisions on the constitutionality of an Act of Parliament or conduct of the President have no force or effect unless confirmed by this Court. Its powers in this regard are therefore no different from those conferred upon the High Court.

Currie and De Waal criticise this explanation as “evasive” and “far from clear.” Despite this, “it is probably safe to say that, as a general rule, a law invalidated by the interim Constitution remains invalid after its repeal, notwithstanding any substantive difference that there might be in the provisions of the two Constitutions.” This, they argue, is “the logical implication” of item 2 of Schedule 6 of the 1996 Constitution: “All law that was in force when the new Constitution took effect, continues in force.” Repeal of the interim Constitution does not deprive it of the legal effect that it had while it was in force. One effect was the automatic invalidation of all inconsistent law. Such law is therefore not in force at the time of the transition to the 1996 Constitution and cannot be resuscitated by it.

“Where the interim Constitution is more protective than the final,” observe Currie and De Waal, “the implications of "Prince" may be significant.” For example, an applicant may choose to attack an old-order law for inconsistency with the right to freedom of economic activity, rather than relying on the narrower right to professional freedom.

“Logically speaking,” the doctrine of objective invalidity means that in the case of old-order legislation, invalidity must first be assessed in terms of the interim Constitution, notwithstanding that the cause of action may have arisen during the operation of the 1996 Constitution. “This, however, does not happen in practice.” In Ex parte Women's Legal Centre: In re Moise v Greater Germiston Transitional Local Council (Moise II), the court dealt with an application to amend the order that it had made earlier, in Moise v Greater Germiston Transitional Local Council (Moise I). In Moise I, the court had confirmed the declaration of invalidity by a High Court of section 2(1)(a) of the Limitation of Legal Proceedings (Provincial and Local Authorities) Act. The point made by the applicants in Moise II was that the Limitation Act was pre-constitutional legislation. It was found by the High Court to be a violation of the right of access to court in s 34 of the 1996 Constitution. Section 22 of the interim Constitution also contained a right of access to court in all relevant respects identical to the one in s 34: “One would therefore have expected, in the light of the "Prince" decision, that the subsection had become invalid at the moment of commencement of the interim Constitution.” 

The Constitutional Court dismissed the application for an amendment on the basis that the consistency of the Limitation Act with the interim Constitution had not been raised or canvassed in the High Court: “Arguably, and if properly raised, a court should consider whether a law should be declared [invalid] with reference to the interim Constitution if it survives a challenge under the 1996 Constitution.”

The rules and principles stated above apply to the Bill of Rights and not to the other provisions of the Constitution.

Neither the interim nor the 1996 Constitution is retrospective in its operation. A law is retrospective if it states that, at a past date, the law shall be taken to have been that which it was not, so as to invalidate what was previously valid or vice versa. Neither the interim nor the 1996 Constitution reaches backward so as to invalidate actions taken under laws valid at the time, even if those laws were contrary to fundamental rights. The corollary also holds: The Constitution cannot retrospectively validate actions that were unlawful in terms of pre-1994 law. Also, the Constitution does not interfere with rights that vested before it came into force.

The rule that the Constitution does not apply retrospectively affects challenges to violations of human rights that occurred before the commencement of the Constitution. Put another way, the rule means that a litigant can only seek constitutional relief for a violation of human rights by conduct that occurred after commencement. As we have seen, the implication of the doctrine of objective constitutional invalidity is that on the date of the Constitution's commencement, laws that are inconsistent with the Constitution cease to have legal effect. But this does not mean that acts performed and things done under such (unconstitutional) laws before the Constitution came into force are also invalid. Since the Constitution does not operate retrospectively, they remain valid. An applicant who complains about such actions will not be allowed to challenge the constitutionality of the enabling laws. The constitutional validity of the enabling law becomes irrelevant since the conduct authorised by the law remains valid.

The rule of non-retrospectivity only limits the “reach” of the Bill of Rights. In other words, it covers only the direct application of the Bill of Rights; it does not prevent the courts from applying the Bill of Rights indirectly to the law when developing the common law or interpreting a statute, even if the dispute arose before the commencement of the Constitution. This is because the post-constitutional development of the common law, or reading down of statutes with reference to the Constitution, does not result in the Constitution's working retroactively. “It is sometimes said,” the court noted in Du Plessis v De Klerk, “that ‘judge-made law’ is retrospective in its operation.” Currie and De Waal contend that it is “always” so. It must be added, however, that the Constitutional Court has not explicitly decided that the rule of non-retrospectivity does not hold for the indirect application of the Bill of Rights.

In Du Plessis v De Kierk, the Constitutional Court expressly “left open” the question of whether a litigant could rely on section 35(3) of the interim Constitution in respect of a common-law claim which arose prior to the date on which the interim Constitution came into force. Kentridge AJ nevertheless remarked that “it may be that a purely prospective operation of a change in the common law will be found to be appropriate when it results from the application of a constitutional enactment which does not itself have retrospective operation.”

However, in Gardener v Whitaker, Kentridge AJ “seemed to condone the indirect application of the Bill of Rights to the law of defamation” in relation to an alleged defamation that took place before the commencement of the interim Constitution.’04 Similarly, in Key v Attorney-General a search and seizure of documents had been completed before the interim Constitution came into force. This meant that the statutory provisions authorising the search and seizure could not be attacked as violations of the Constitution. Kriegler J nevertheless stated that if the evidence obtained by way of the search and seizure was tendered in criminal proceedings against the applicant, he would be entitled to raise Constitution-based objections to its admissibility. While the non-retrospectivity rule prevented the applicant in Key from challenging the provisions of the Investigation of Serious Economic Offences Act before or during the trial, a discretion to exclude otherwise admissible evidence could be developed by indirectly applying the Bill of Rights.

In Masiya v Director of Public Prosecutions, the Constitutional Court accepted that retrospective consequences would ordinarily follow from the development of the common law in terms of section 39(2) of the Constitution. However, it held that, on the exceptional facts at issue—the development of the common-law definition of rape to include anal rape of a woman—the retrospective development would offend the principle of legality. Legality, noted the court, included the principle of foreseeability. The rules of criminal law had to be clear, so that individuals know which conduct is proscribed by law. The definition was accordingly held to apply only to conduct taking place after the judgment.

Court proceedings that commenced prior to the coming into effect of the interim or 1996 Constitutions, but which had not yet been finalised when those Constitutions took effect, are governed by item 17 of Schedule 6, which provides that court proceedings that commenced before the coming into effect of the 1996 Constitution, but after the coming into effect of the interim Constitution, must be decided in terms of the interim Constitution, unless the interests of justice require otherwise. Proceedings that commenced before the coming into effect of the interim Constitution must be dealt with in accordance with the law in force at the time, unless the interests of justice require otherwise.

“Though it is obvious,” write Currie and De Waal, that the Constitution applies throughout the national territory, “it is less obvious whether it has any extraterritorial application.” The question was considered by the Constitutional Court in Kaunda v President of the Republic of South Africa. The case arose from an incident in which the applicants, all South African citizens, had been arrested in Zimbabwe on charges that they had plotted to stage a coup in Equatorial Guinea. The applicants sought relief in the form of an order directing the South African government to seek assurances from the governments of Zimbabwe and Equatorial Guinea that the death penalty would not be imposed on the applicants. The basis of the application was a contention that the applicants’ constitutional rights to a fair trial, to dignity, life and freedom and security of the person were being infringed in Zimbabwe, and were likely to be infringed if they were extradited to Equatorial Guinea. The state's duty to protect the rights of the applicants (stemming from section 7(2)) required them to be provided with diplomatic protection.

This argument, Chaskalson CJ held for the majority of the court, required acceptance of the proposition that “the rights nationals have under our Constitution attach to them when they are outside of South Africa, or that the state has an obligation under section 7(2) to ‘respect, protect, promote, and fulfil’ the rights in the Bill of Rights which extends beyond its borders.” According to the court, to the extent that the Constitution provides the framework for the governance of South Africa, it is territorially bound and has no application beyond the borders of the Republic. As for the Bill of Rights, although foreigners are entitled to require the South African state to respect, protect and promote their rights, they lose the benefit of that protection when they leave the national territory. The argument of the applicant, to the effect that section 7(2) places a more extensive obligation on the state to respect, protect and promote the rights of South Africans when they are in foreign countries, was rejected. The bearers of the rights in the Bill of Rights are people in South Africa. The Bill of Rights does not have general application beyond the national territory.

Section 7(1) does not deal with standing, but rather with the definition of the class of beneficiaries of the rights in the Bill of Rights. It therefore does not bar a foreign litigant who has a protectable interest in this country from seeking to protect that interest before a South African court.

Indirect application means that the Constitution and the Bill of Rights do not directly bind actors. Instead, the influence of the Bill of Rights is mediated through other law: statutory or common law. In principle, and where possible, a legal dispute should be decided in terms of the existing principles or rules of ordinary law, properly interpreted or developed with reference to the values contained in the Bill of Rights, prior to any direct application of the Bill of Rights to the dispute. When it comes to statutory law, the principle simply means that a court must first attempt to interpret legislation in conformity with the Bill of Rights (indirect application) before considering a declaration that the legislation is in conflict with the Bill of Rights and invalid (direct application). When it comes to the common law, the principle supports the courts’ routine practice of developing the common law in conformity with the Bill of Rights (indirect application) in preference to assessing whether the common law is in conflict with the Bill of Rights (direct application).

Since the Bill of Rights binds all the original and delegated law-making actors, it is always capable of being applied directly to legislation. But, before a court may resort to direct application and to invalidation, it must first consider indirectly applying the Bill of Rights to the statutory provision by interpreting it in such a way as to conform to the Bill of Rights.

Section 39(2) places a general duty on every court, tribunal or forum to promote the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights when interpreting any legislation. Statutory interpretation must positively promote the Bill of Rights and the other provisions of the Constitution, particularly the fundamental values in section 1. “This means,” according to the Constitutional Court in Investigating Directorate: Serious Economic Offences v Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd In re: Hyundai Motor Distributors (Pty) Ltd v Smit NO,

that all statutes must be interpreted through the prism of the Bill of Rights. All law-making authority must be exercised in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitution is located in a history which involves a transition from a society based on division, injustice and exclusion from the democratic process to one which respects the dignity of all citizens, and includes all in the process of governance. As such, the process of interpreting the Constitution must recognise the context in which we find ourselves and the Constitution’s goal of a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human rights. This spirit of transition and transformation characterises the constitutional enterprise as a whole.

The court held further that “the purport and objects of the Constitution find expression in section 1 which lays out the fundamental values which the Constitution is designed to achieve.” In other words, the legislature is presumed to have intended to further the values underlying the Bill of Rights by passing legislation that is in accordance with the Bill of Rights, unless the contrary is established. The duty of courts, tribunals or forums to interpret in accordance with the Bill of Rights applies even if a litigant has failed to rely on section 39(2). The duty is therefore extensive, “requiring courts to be alert to the normative framework of the Constitution not only when some startling new development of the common law is in issue, but in all cases where the incremental development of [... a common-law] rule is in issue.”

The general duty to promote the Bill of Rights becomes particularly important when it is possible to avoid an inconsistency between a legislative provision and the Bill of Rights by interpreting the legislation so that it conforms to the Bill of Rights. Under the interim Constitution, such a process of interpretation became known as “reading down.” According to section 35(2) of the interim Constitution, where legislation was capable of being read in two ways—as a violation of fundamental rights or, if read more restrictively, as not violating rights—the latter reading was to be preferred. Section 35(2) is not repeated in the 1996 Constitution, but the courts and other tribunals are still permitted, and indeed required, to “read down” by virtue of section 39(2). In any event, section 35(3) of the interim Constitution, which is the predecessor to s 39(2), always encapsulated the notion of reading down without any need for it to be expressly spelled out in the section.

In De Lange v Smuts, Ackermann J stated that “reading down” does

no more than give expression to a sound principle of constitutional interpretation recognised by other open and democratic societies based on human dignity, equality and freedom such as, for example, the United States of America, Canada and Germany, whose constitutions, like our 1996 Constitution, contain no express provision to such effect. In my view, the same interpretative approach should be adopted under the 1996 Constitution.

“Accordingly,” wrote Langa DP in Hyundai Motor Distributors, “judicial officers must prefer interpretations of legislation that fall within constitutional bounds over those that do not, provided that such an interpretation can be reasonably ascribed to the section.”

The duty to interpret in accordance with the Constitution applies also where two or more interpretations of a legislative provision are possible. The court must prefer the reading of a statute that “better” promotes the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights, even if neither interpretation would render the provision unconstitutional.

In Govender v Minister of Safety and Security, the Supreme Court of Appeal set out a standard formula for dealing with constitutional challenges to legislation. A judge, magistrate or presiding officer of a tribunal is required


This power of interpretation, “considerable though it is,” is not unconstrained. As the Constitutional Court recognised in Hyundai Motor Distributors,

Limits must [...] be placed on the application of this principle. On the one hand, it is the duty of a judicial officer to interpret legislation in conformity with the Constitution so far as this is reasonably possible. On the other hand, the legislature is under a duty to pass legislation that is reasonably clear and precise, enabling citizens and officials to understand what is expected of them. A balance will often have to be struck as to how this tension is to be resolved when considering the constitutionality of legislation.”

“Taken to its limit,” agree Currie and De Waal,

the power to interpret legislation in conformity with the Constitution would mean that any legislative provision could be made to conform to the Constitution by a suitably determined exercise of interpretative will. This would make the powers of the courts to declare legislation invalid superfluous and would deny the legislatures any significant role in the interpretation of the Constitution.

Therefore, according to the Supreme Court of Appeal, an interpretation of legislation is constrained by the requirement that it must be “reasonably possible.” The Constitutional Court earlier expressed the same qualification in different words in the Hyundai Motor Distributors case: “There will be occasions when a judicial officer will find that the legislation, though open to a meaning which would be unconstitutional, is reasonably capable of being read “in conformity with the Constitution”. Such an interpretation should not, however, be unduly strained.”

In National Coalition for Gay and Lesbian Equality v Minister of Home Affairs, it was said that

There is a clear distinction between interpreting legislation in a way which “promote[s] the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights” as required by s 39(2) of the Constitution and the process of reading words into or severing them from a statutory provision which is a remedial measure under s 172(1)(b), following upon a declaration of constitutional invalidity under s 172(1)(a) [...]. The first process, being an interpretative one, is limited to what the text is reasonably capable of meaning. The latter can only take place after the statutory provision in question, notwithstanding the application of all legitimate interpretative aids, is found to be constitutionally invalid.

“It follows,” held the court in Hyundai Motor Distributors, “that where a legislative provision is reasonably capable of a meaning that places it within constitutional bounds, it should be preserved. Only if this is not possible should one resort to the remedy of reading in or notional severance.”

These qualifications may be taken to mean something along the lines of “plausible”—the result of the interpretative process must be a reading of the legislation that is defensible using “all legitimate interpretive aids,” by which is meant the repertoire of justificatory arguments supplied by the law of interpretation of statutes. The process of reaching a plausible, constitutionally-compliant interpretation entails reading legislation purposively and contextually. If the only plausible interpretation of a statutory provision is one that entails an infringement of the Bill of Rights, the court must proceed to consider whether the infringement is justifiable. If is not, it must declare the provision unconstitutional.

“Reading down” should perhaps be avoided as a description of the practice of interpretation in conformity with the Constitution, as it tends to suggest that the practice always entails reading restrictively. But section 39(2) sometimes requires more than simply narrowing the ambit of legislation so as to avoid conflict with rights. A narrow construction of a legislative provision will often have the result of avoiding an alleged conflict between the provision and the Bill of Rights: for example, when discretionary powers conferred are too wide, or when the scope of regulation is over-inclusive, or to restrict the impact of changes to the criminal law. But, on other occasions, the statute may have to be generously interpreted to avoid the conflict: for example, where the constitutional invalidity lies in the lack of any express grant of discretionary power. The point is that, if the statutory provision is genuinely ambiguous or otherwise unclear, the interpretation which best conforms to the Bill of Rights must be chosen.

Section 39(2) does not have any bearing on the interpretation of the Constitution or the Bill of Rights; the subsection deals with statutory interpretation only.

As we have seen, legislation is approached by first interpreting it with the Constitution in mind, prior to any direct application of the Constitution (and any finding of unconstitutionality). In the case of the common law, the approach is similar but not identical, the difference lying in the remedial powers of the courts. If impugned legislation is found to limit a right, and if the limitation does not satisfy the justification standard in section 36, the court provides a remedy by declaring the legislation unconstitutional and, where possible, ameliorating the constitutional defect through reading in or notional or actual severance. “In that event,” according to Moseneke J in S v Thebus, “the responsibility and power to address the consequences of the declaration of invalidity resides, not with the courts, but pre-eminently with the legislative authority.” The Constitutional Court was unanimous on this issue. In Du Plessis v De Klerk, furthermore, the court noted that “the common law, it is often said, is developed on incremental lines. Certainly it has not been developed by the process of ‘striking down.’”

But the common law is different. It is the law of the courts and not the legislature:

The superior courts have always had an inherent power to refashion and develop the common law in order to reflect the changing social, moral and economic make-up of society. That power is now constitutionally authonsed and must be exercised within the prescripts and ethos of the Constitution.

According to the court, the need to develop the common law under section 39(2) could arise in at least two instances:


In a constitutional challenge of the first type the court must perform a “threshold analysis,” being whether the rule limits an entrenched right, if the limitation is not reasonable and justifiable, the court itself is obliged to adapt, or develop the common law in order to harmonise it with the constitutional norm.

In its earlier decision in Carinichele, the Constitutional Court emphasised that the constitutional obligation to develop the common law is not discretionary, but is rather a “general obligation” to consider whether the common law is deficient and, if so, to develop it to promote the objectives of the Bill of Rights. The obligation applied in both civil and criminal cases, irrespective of whether or not the parties had requested the court to develop the common law.

The indirect application of the Bill of Rights to the common law can take many forms. The first method is to argue for a change in the existing principles of the common law so that the law gives better effect to Bill of Rights. This argument has been made in the areas of defamation and restraint of trade. In restraint of cases the argument that the incidence and content of the onus have to be reformed with reference to the section 22 right to occupational freedom has been less successful. The courts have been less inclined to reform the principles of the law of contract in a similar manner to the development of the law of delict.

The second method is to “apply” the common law with due regard to the Bill of Rights. This method was employed by Davis AJ in Rivett-Carnac v Wiggins. Davis AJ declined to consider the constitutionality of the presumption relating to animus iniuriandi in defamation cases, but “clearly took the Bill of Rights into account in reaching the conclusion that the statements made in this particular case were not defamatory.” Davis AJ held that the “boundary between criticising professional work without reducing such professional’s reputation in the eyes of colleagues and the publication of defamatory statements about such a professional must be carefully drawn, particularly in the light of our new constitutional commitments.”

The third method, which is closely related to the second, is to give constitutionally-informed content to open-ended common-law concepts, such as “public policy” or “contra bonos mores” or “unlawfulness.” This has been held to be the proper approach to Bill of Rights challenges to contractual provisions. Barkhuizen v Napier dealt with a contractual time-bar clause requiring action to be instituted against an insurer within ninety days of the rejection of an insurance claim. The insured contended that this clause infringed his right of access to court in terms of section 34. The approach to be adopted to this contention was to apply a “constitutionalised” conception of the common-law doctrine of public policy: a conception informed by the values given effect to in the Bill of Rights.

The analysis then undertaken by the Constitutional Court in Barkhuizen essentially entailed an application of the test for the validity of legislative time-bar provisions set out in Mohlomi v Minister of Defence: A time-bar provision will unjustifiably limit the right of access to court if it is unreasonably short and if it is inflexible. If it is an unjustifiable limitation of section 34, it will be contrary to public policy and unenforceable. The justifiability of the provision had to be determined in the light of a number of factors, including the bargaining position of the respective parties and their ability to enforce their rights.

In Barkhuizen, the court found that the applicant was well-resourced and there was nothing on the facts to explain why no steps had been taken to enforce his rights at the earlier stages. Similarly, the facts did not disclose the extent of the bargaining between the parties prior to the conclusion of the contract. It could not be said, for instance, whether the insured was in a weak bargaining position and could not influence the terms of the contract.

Bredenkamp v Standard Bank is an application of the Barkhuizen methodology. The issue was whether the contractual right of a banker to close a client's account was subject to the requirements of fairness. The Supreme Court of Appeal held that the Constitution does not envisage the duty of fairness to apply in all contractual settings. Rather, one must consider the specific circumstances of each case to determine whether a constitutional value is implicated. If not, one cannot complain about an overarching requirement of fairness: “If a contract is prima facie contrary to constitutional values, questions of enforcement would not arise. However, enforcement of a prima facie innocent contract may implicate an identified constitutional value. If the value is unjustifiably affected, the term will not be enforced.”

This means that fairness is not a self-standing requirement against which contractual clauses must be assessed: “Fairness is part of a matrix of constitutional values, which inform the interpretation of contracts. Such values are an embodiment of the legal convictions of the community. The autonomy of individuals to freely conclude contracts which are binding upon them is also part of the legal convictions of the community.”

A rule of the common law must be assessed for inconsistency with the Bill of Rights and, if necessary, developed within the “matrix of [... the] objective, normative value system” established by the Constitution. Courts have far more scope to “develop” the common law by way of indirect application than they have when they “interpret” legislation, where they are bound to a reasonable interpretation of the statute.

Are there any limits on the power to develop the common law? The first limitation is that, when the common law is developed, it must be done incrementally and on a case by case basis. The development cannot take place in the abstract; the court must apply the law as it is found to be in the case before it. This approach has also found favour when the Bill of Rights is directly applied to the common law. Indeed, it is even more important when the Bill of Rights is directly applied, because the consequences of a direct application differ from those of an indirect application. For example, in Shabalala v Attorney-General, Transvaal, the Constitutional Court was careful, after striking down a common-law rule, to balance the need to provide guidance with the danger of being prescriptive. Such care must also be taken when the Bill of Rights is indirectly applied. “Some guidance on the new approach has to be provided,” write Currie and De Waal, “while room must be left for the courts to develop the principle on a case by case basis.”

“One of the most important” limitations on the power to develop the common law via the indirect application of the Constitution is the doctrine of stare decisis. In Govender v Minister of Safety and Security, reading down was employed to hold that section 49(l)(b) of the Criminal Procedure Act was not unconstitutional. In a subsequent decision, the Transkei High Court, in S v Walters, confronted with the precedent of the SCA decision in Govender, held that it did not have to follow it. Appeal-court decisions on the constitutional validity of legislation, according to Jafta AJP, “rank in the same level” as High Court decisions. The reason is that both decisions had no force unless confirmed by the Constitutional Court. Since, in the view of Jafta AJP, the SCA's decision on section 49(1)(b) in Govender was clearly wrong, it did not have to be followed by the High Court. The subsection was struck down to the extent that it permitted the use of force to prevent a suspect from fleeing.

The High Court's approach to the issue was repudiated by the Constitutional Court in the confirmation proceedings:

The trial court in the instant matter was bound by the interpretation put on section 49 by the SCA in "Govender". The judge was obliged to approach the case before him on the basis that such interpretation was correct, however much he may personally have had his misgivings about it. High courts are obliged to follow legal interpretations of the SCA, whether they relate to constitutional issues or to other issues, and remain so obliged unless and until the SCA itself decides otherwise or [... the Constitutional Court] does so in respect of a constitutional issue.

But this holding, Kriegler J emphasised, applied only to the binding effect of decisions of higher tribunals “delivered after the advent of the constitutional regime and in compliance with the requirements of section 39 of the Constitution.” The extent of application of stare decisis to pre-1994 decisions (if this is what “the advent of the constitutional regime” means), and to direct applications of the Constitution, was not decided.

The subsequent decision of the Supreme Court of Appeal in Afrox v Strydom “fills the gap left open by the Constitutional Court.” As regards the binding effect of pre-constitutional authority of the appeal court, there are three distinct situations that can arise:


Currie and De Waal put Afrox and Walters together in the following way:


The distinction between direct and indirect application is therefore “crucial to the impact of the "Afrox" decision.” Section 39(2), the SCA holds, does not authorise lower courts to depart from higher authority, whether pre- or post-constitutional. The subsection must be read with section 173, recognising the inherent jurisdiction of the High Courts to develop the common law. It is that power which is exercised when the courts develop the common law in accordance with section 39(2). But the power has always been constrained by the doctrine of stare decisis: “There is nothing to indicate that the Constitution has changed this.”

The Afrox and Walters decisions have been strongly criticised. There is, however, “a significant omission from the "Afrox" decision.” As we have seen, indirect application in terms of section 39(2) does not involve only development of the common law, but also statutory interpretation, taking the spirit, purport and objects of the Bill of Rights into account. But the SCA in Afrox “seems to confine itself to the first type of indirect application only.” This may be taken to mean that “post-"Afrox" High Courts still possess the jurisdiction to depart from pre-constitutional statutory interpretations of the AD.” Currie and De Waal argue that “a great deal also turns on the distinction between direct and indirect application.” Khumalo v Holomisa appears to treat direct horizontal application as a relatively simple and unexceptional process. If so, “awkward appeal court precedent can easily be sidestepped. A High Court, by opting for direct application, will be understood to distinguish the case before it from a precedent arising from indirect application.”

Under the 1996 Constitution, there is only one system of law. The Constitution applies to all law, informing its interpretation and development by the courts and determining its validity. This means that the parallel systems of “constitutional” law and “non-constitutional” law (and “constitutional” and “non-constitutional litigation”) developed under the interim Constitution are no longer theoretically sustainable. Nevertheless, the distinction between the direct and indirect methods of application of the Constitution to the law has not been abandoned and “continues to have some practical significance at least in so far as the common law is concerned.”

We have seen that, under the interim Constitution, the distinction between direct and indirect application of the Bill of Rights had important jurisdictional implications. The interim Constitution distinguished between constitutional matters and other matters, and provided that the Constitutional Court could hear only the former and the Appellate Division only the latter. In Du Plessis, the Constitutional Court held that indirect application of the Bill of Rights to the common law was not a constitutional matter, and therefore was within Appellate Division jurisdiction. The main task of the Constitutional Court was to test the validity of the law and state conduct against the Constitution. In order to trigger the jurisdiction of the Constitutional Court, it was therefore necessary to show that the Bill of Rights applied directly to the challenged law or conduct. Whenever the Bill of Rights merely applied indirectly to a dispute, the Appellate Division and not the Constitutional Court was primarily responsible.

Under the unitary jurisdictional system established by the 1996 Constitution, all superior courts have the power to apply the Constitution directly and indirectly to the common law. This means that the jurisdictional motivation for distinguishing between direct and indirect application no longer holds for common-law disputes. However, since decisions of the High Courts and the Supreme Court of Appeal declaring certain forms of legislation invalid must be confirmed by the Constitutional Court, “it remains important for jurisdictional reasons,” whether legislation is directly tested against the Bill of Rights, or whether it is merely interpreted with reference to the Bill of Rights.

The purpose of direct application is to determine whether there is, on a proper interpretation of the law and the Bill of Rights, any inconsistency between the two. The purpose of indirect application is to determine whether it is possible to avoid, in the first place, any inconsistency between the law and the Bill of Rights by a proper interpretation of the two.

Direct application of the Bill of Rights generates a constitutional remedy, whereas indirect application does not. The reason for this is that direct application is aimed at exposing inconsistency between the Bill of Rights and law or conduct. If there is, the court then declares that law or conduct constitutionally invalid. The effect of such a declaration, according to Ackermann J and Sachs J in Du Plessis, is to restrict the legislature's options in amending the law or enacting a similar law. Much depends of course on the terms of the court's order and its reasoning and the application of the doctrine of stare decisis, but as a general rule direct application rules out certain possibilities as constitutionally impermissible, whereas an indirect application merely proposes a construction of the law that conforms to the Constitution. Although there is, therefore, a difference in principle between direct and indirect application, the problem alluded to by Ackermann J and Sachs J also depends on the extent to which a court is prepared to “pronounce on the meaning” of the Constitution: “Courts generally avoid making extensive pronouncements on what the Constitution demands the common law to be, whether they apply the Bill of Rights directly or indirectly.” The preferred approach is to give narrow rulings limited to the facts before the court: “Such orders will preserve considerable space for the legislature to reform the common law.” Direct application, however, “inevitably rules out certain options.” When a law or conduct is ruled to be inconsistent with the Constitution, it can no longer form part of the law. The scope of the limitation on the legislature's discretion will therefore depend on the extent of the court's ruling.

That said, there is little practical difference between the two forms of application when it comes to the common law. This is because, although notionally methodologically distinct, direct and indirect application of the Bill of Rights end up at the same point: the need to develop rules of the common law in conformity with the Bill of Rights.

“There are,” observe Currie and De Waal, “only a few common-law cases where the method of application is likely to make a substantive difference to the result.” These are cases in which a plaintiff cannot find a cause of action in the existing common law. Since the common law does not provide a right, it will be necessary to invoke directly a right in the Bill of Rights.

In S v Mhlungu, Kentridge AJ stated,

I would lay it down as a general principle that, where it is possible to decide any case, civil or criminal, without reaching a constitutional issue, that is the course which should be followed.

This statement was subsequently approved by the unanimous court in Zantsi v Council of State, Ciskei. In this case, Chaskalson P referred to the “salutary rule” which is followed in the United States “never to anticipate a question of constitutional law in advance of the necessity of deciding it” and “never to formulate a rule of constitutional law broader than is required by the precise facts to which it is to be applied.” This rule, Chaskalson P added,

allows the law to develop incrementally. In view of the far-reaching implications attaching to constitutional decisions, it is a rule which should ordinarily be adhered to by this and all other South African Courts before whom constitutional issues are raised [... I]t is not ordinarily desirable for a Court to give rulings in the abstract on issues which are not the subject of controversy and are only of academic interest.

There are several reasons for observing this “salutary rule” under the South African Constitution. The first is procedural. The interim Constitution contained complicated provisions governing the referral of a constitutional issue to the Constitutional Court where that issue was beyond the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court. A referral was, for example, necessary whenever the constitutionality of an Act of Parliament was in dispute. The statements in Mhlungu and Zantsi “were meant to deter the divisions of the Supreme Court from referring irrelevant issues or issues that were within their jurisdiction to the Constitutional Court.” Since the system of referrals has now been replaced by a wider High Court jurisdiction and a system of appeals, this justification should no longer carry the same weight. However, it would be wrong to conclude that the justification did not survive the changes in constitutional jurisdiction brought about by the 1996 Constitution and the abolition of referrals. It remains an important factor when considering applications for direct access to the Constitutional Court and applications for leave to appeal using the “leapfrog” appeal procedure. It also informs the doctrine of justiciability, particularly the principles that courts should not decide moot cases or cases that are not ripe for judicial resolution.

There are also substantive reasons for observing the rule: “Courts should avoid making pronouncements on the meaning of the Constitution where it is not necessary to do so, so as to leave space for the legislature to reform the law in accordance with its own interpretation of the Constitution.” Lengthy expositions of the Constitution may result in actual or perceived restrictions on the legislature, a “constitutional straitjacket” which makes it difficult for the legislature to respond to changing circumstances. The courts, and particularly the Constitutional Court, are not the only interpreters of the Constitution. They are, however, its final and authoritative interpreters. Before pronouncing on the meaning of the Constitution, “the courts should allow other organs of the government the opportunity to interpret and give effect to the Constitution.” Practically, this means that the legislature should be given the opportunity to address an issue before a court decides on it: “The legislature and the executive are better equipped to ascertain the needs of society and to respond to those needs.” Once such a response finds expression in legislation, courts may then test the legislation against the provisions of the Bill of Rights. Even then, the Constitutional Court (the final court in constitutional matters) often seeks to avoid ruling on the constitutionality of a statutory provision until trial, and appeal-court judges have expressed their views on the effect of the provision and the likely consequences of invalidating it. “It is sound judicial policy,” write Currie and De Waal, “to decide only that which is demanded by the facts of a case and that is necessary for its proper disposition; this allows constitutional jurisprudence to develop incrementally.”

When applying the Bill of Rights in a legal dispute, the principle of avoidance is “of crucial importance.” As we have seen, the Bill of Rights always applies in a legal dispute. It is usually capable of direct or indirect application and, in a limited number of cases, of indirect application only. The availability of direct application is qualified by the principle that the Bill of Rights should not be applied directly in a legal dispute unless it is necessary to do so. The principle has “a number of important consequences.”

Even when the Bill of Rights applies directly, a court must apply the provisions of ordinary law to resolve the dispute, especially in so far as the ordinary law is intended to give effect to the rights contained in the Bill of Rights. Many recent statutes, such as the Labour Relations Act 66 of 1995 and the Equality and Administrative Justice Acts are intended to implement the Bill of Rights. They must first be applied, and if necessary interpreted generously to give effect to the Bill of Rights, before a direct application is considered.

The same applies to disputes governed by the common law. The ordinary principles of common law must first be applied, and if necessary developed with reference to the Bill of Rights, before a direct application is considered.

When the Bill of Rights is directly applied in disputes governed by legislation, conduct must be challenged before law. In other words, the implementation of the statute must be challenged before the provisions of the statute itself.

However, “to complicate matters further,” the principle that constitutional issues should be avoided is not an absolute rule. It does not require that litigants may only directly invoke the Constitution as a last resort. As with many legal principles, its force depends on the circumstances of the case. Where the violation of the Constitution is clear and directly relevant to the matter, and there is no apparent alternative form of ordinary relief, it is not necessary to waste time and effort by seeking a non-constitutional way of resolving a dispute. This will often be the case when the constitutionality of a statutory provision is placed in dispute because, apart from a reading down, there are no other remedies available to a litigant affected by the provision. On the other hand, the principle of avoiding constitutional issues is particularly relevant when the interest of an applicant in the resolution of a constitutional issue is not clear, and where the issue is not ripe for decision, or when it has become academic or moot.





</doc>
<doc id="41074267" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074267" title="Tamushal">
Tamushal

Tamushal () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074274" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074274" title="Seth Rosenfeld">
Seth Rosenfeld

Seth Rosenfeld (born 1956) is an American journalist. He is the author of "Subversives: The FBI's War on Student Radicals, and Reagan's Rise to Power", published in hardback in 2012 by Farrar, Straus and Giroux, and in paperback in 2013 by Picador. "Subversives" was a New York Times best-seller and won the 2013 Ridenhour Prize for books; PEN Center USA's Literary Award for Research Nonfiction; the National Society of Professional Journalists' Sunshine Award; and the American Book Award from the Before Columbus Foundation.

Rosenfeld was a staff reporter for the "San Francisco Examiner" from 1984 to 2000, and for the "San Francisco Chronicle" from 2000 to 2009. Since then his articles have appeared in the "New York Times", "The Los Angeles Times", "The San Francisco Chronicle", "Harper's Magazine", and other publications. He is a contributor to the Center for Investigative Reporting and the center's "Reveal".

During the 1980s, Rosenfeld's reports for the "San Francisco Examiner" revealed that poor medical care in California prisons had led to inmate injuries and costly legal settlements. He also disclosed that California's massive prison construction program suffered from construction flaws, cost overruns, and fire and safety problems.

In other articles, Rosenfeld reported alleged links between "contra" rebels seeking to overthrow the Sandinista government of Nicaragua and a cocaine smuggling ring in the so-called Frogman Case. One story reported that federal prosecutors had returned $36,020 that had been seized as drug funds to one of the Frogman defendants after he claimed it was actually money to support the "contras". The articles led to congressional inquiries, and a subsequent report released by the U.S. Department of Justice's Inspector General found that the prosecutors had returned the money at the request of the CIA. According to the Inspector General's report, the prosecutors made no determination as to whether the cash was really "contra" political money, but sought to eliminate grounds for defense attorneys to ask questions that could reveal the CIA's covert support of the "contras". The late journalist Gary Webb cited Rosenfeld as first disclosing this aspect of the contra-cocaine story.

In the 1990s, Rosenfeld's series, "Anatomy of a Killing", revealed a systemic breakdown in the San Francisco Police Department's investigation into an officer's fatal shooting of a young man in the back. A second series, "Shots Fired", uncovered flaws in the department's investigations into several other police shootings of suspects, and showed that the department's failure to fairly investigate police shootings fell hardest on people who were minorities or low-income. The articles prompted the department to re-examine how it investigated officer-involved-shootings and won a Mencken Award from the Free Press Association.

Rosenfeld received a 1992 George Polk Award for articles in the "Examiner" revealing internal Dow Corning Corp. documents that showed the company knowingly marketed defective silicone gel breast implants that leaked inside women and caused them to undergo otherwise avoidable surgeries to remove the implants. The articles led the U.S. Food and Drug Administration to impose a moratorium on the use of implants and adopt rules restricting the use of silicone. The Polk judges said, "Rosenfeld's determination to look beyond an obscure verdict and his newspaper's dedication to public service sparked a national debate and prompted reforms that otherwise might not have happened."

In 2002, the "Chronicle" published Rosenfeld's article, "The Campus Files," which was based on FBI records showing that the bureau had engaged in unlawful surveillance and harassment of students, professors and administrators at the University of California in the 1960s. The articles led to inquires by U.S. Senator Dianne Feinstein and a response from then-FBI Director Robert Mueller that the FBI's covert activities at UC were "wrong and anti-democratic." "The Campus Files" won several national awards.

In "Subversives", Rosenfeld expanded his examination of FBI activities at UC during the Cold War, documenting how J. Edgar Hoover's FBI secretly worked to get UC President Clark Kerr fired because bureau officials disagreed with his campus policies; harassed Free Speech Movement leader Mario Savio; and gave personal and political help to Ronald Reagan, who had been a more active FBI informant in Hollywood than previously known.

On August 20, 2012, Rosenfeld's report for the Center for Investigative Reporting alleged that Richard Aoki was an FBI informant who had infiltrated chapters of the Communist Party, the Socialist Workers' Party and, nearly from its inception, the Black Panther Party. In response to a FOIA request by Rosenfeld, it was revealed that a November 16, 1967 FBI intelligence report listed Aoki as an informant with the code number "T-2". FBI agent Burney Threadgill Jr. also said that he worked with Aoki, stating, "He was my informant. I developed him."



</doc>
<doc id="41074299" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074299" title="I Remember Love">
I Remember Love

"I Remember Love" is a song written by Peter Hallström and Sarah Dawn Finer, and performed by Sarah Dawn Finer at Melodifestivalen 2007. The song participated in the semifinal in Gävle on 24 February 2007, and reached the finals in the Stockholm Globe Arena on 10 March 2007, where it ended up 4th.

On 5 March 2007, the single was released, and by mid June 2007 the single sold gold, after being at the Swedish singles chart since released.

The song also charted at Svensktoppen, entering on 1 April 2007 reaching a second position, topping the chart the upcoming week before being knocked down by Andreas Johnson's "A Little Bit of Love" on 15 April 2007. The song made its 30th final Svensktoppen visit on 21 October 2007. before leaving the chart the upcoming week.



</doc>
<doc id="41074321" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074321" title="2013–14 Iowa Hawkeyes women's basketball team">
2013–14 Iowa Hawkeyes women's basketball team

The 2013–14 Iowa Hawkeyes women's basketball team will represent University of Iowa during the 2013–14 NCAA Division I women's basketball season. The Hawkeyes, led by fourteenth year head coach Lisa Bluder, play their home games at the Carver-Hawkeye Arena and were a members of the Big Ten Conference. They finished with a record of 27–9 overall, 11–5 overall for a tie for a fourth-place finish. They lost in the championship game of the 2014 Big Ten Conference Women's Basketball Tournament to Nebraska. They were invited to the 2014 NCAA Women's Division I Basketball Tournament which they defeated Marist in the first round before getting defeated by Louisville in the second round.

!colspan=9| Exhibition
!colspan=9| Regular Season

!colspan=9| 2014 Big Ten Conference Women's Basketball Tournament

!colspan=9| NCAA Women's Tournament

Source

2013–14 Iowa Hawkeyes men's basketball team


</doc>
<doc id="41074357" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074357" title="Gerd-e Kuh">
Gerd-e Kuh

Gerd-e Kuh () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074358" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074358" title="List of doping cases in sport (G)">
List of doping cases in sport (G)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "G".


</doc>
<doc id="41074368" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074368" title="Práxedes Mateo Sagasta">
Práxedes Mateo Sagasta

Práxedes Mariano Mateo Sagasta y Escolar (21 July 1825 – 5 January 1903) was a Spanish civil engineer and politician who served as Prime Minister on eight occasions between 1870 and 1902—always in charge of the Liberal Party—as part of the "turno pacifico", alternating with the Conservative leader Antonio Cánovas. He was known for possessing an excellent oratorical talent.

Mateo-Sagasta was born on 21 July 1825 at Torrecilla en Cameros, province of Logroño, Spain. As a member of the Progressive Party while a student at the Civil Engineering School of Madrid in 1848, Sagasta was the only one in the school who refused to sign a letter supporting Queen Isabel II.

After his studies, he took an active role in government. Sagasta served in the Spanish Cortes between 1854–1857 and 1858–1863. In 1866 he went into exile in France after a failed coup. After the Spanish Revolution of 1868, he returned to Spain to take part in the newly created provisional government.

He served as Prime Minister of Spain during the Spanish–American War of 1898 (during which time Spain lost its remaining colonies.) Sagasta agreed to an autonomous constitution for both Cuba and Puerto Rico. Sagasta's political opponents saw his action as a betrayal of Spain; they blamed him for the country's defeat in the war and the loss of its island territories in the Treaty of Paris of 1898. He continued to be active in politics for another four years.

Sagasta died on 5 January 1903 in Madrid.



</doc>
<doc id="41074371" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074371" title="Western Pennsylvania League">
Western Pennsylvania League

The Western Pennsylvania League was a Class-D minor baseball league consisting of teams from Pennsylvania, West Virginia and Maryland that played during the 1907 season. 

It began the season with eight teams - the Beaver Falls Beavers, Butler White Sox, Clarksburg Bees, Connellsville Cokers, Fairmont Champions, Greensburg Red Sox, Scottdale Giants and a squad from Latrobe, Pennsylvania. 

On May 28, the Latrobe team was forfeited to the league. The Cumberland Rooters took its place, but that team moved to Piedmont, West Virginia on June 27, then to Somerset, Pennsylvania on July 11. It eventually folded altogether later that month. On August 1, the Kittanning Infants entered the league, but it disbanded, along with Beaver Falls, on August 11. Greensburg disbanded on August 25. Fairmont finished in first place with a 68-36 record. Jim Clark, Dick Hoblitzell and Reddy Mack played in the league. 

A league by the same name existed in the late 1880s, but little is known about it.


</doc>
<doc id="41074405" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074405" title="Dialium guineense">
Dialium guineense

Dialium guineense, velvet tamarind, is a tall, tropical, fruit-bearing tree. It belongs to the Leguminosae family, and has small, typically grape-sized edible fruits with brown hard inedible shells.

It grows in dense forests in Africa along the southern edge of the Sahel. In Togo it is called atchethewh.

The velvet tamarind can be found in West African countries such as Ghana where it is known as "Yoyi", Sierra Leone, Senegal, Guinea-Bissau where because of its texture is called "Veludo", Portuguese for velvet, and Nigeria where it is known as "Awin" or "Igbaru" in Yoruba, "Icheku" in Igbo and "Tsamiyar kurm" in Hausa.

The bark and leaves have medicinal properties and are used against several diseases.

Each fruit typically has one hard, flat, round, brown seed, typically 7-8 millimeters across and 3 millimeters thick. The seed somewhat resembles a watermelon seed "(Citrullus lanatus)". Some have two seeds. The seeds are shiny, coated with a thin layer of starch.

The pulp is edible and may be eaten raw or soaked in water and consumed as a beverage. The bitter leaves are ingredients in a Ghanaian dish called "domoda".

Wood is hard and heavy and used for construction. The wood is also used for firewood and charcoal production



</doc>
<doc id="41074408" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074408" title="Lialeman">
Lialeman

Lialeman (, also Romanized as Līālemān) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 819, in 223 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074409" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074409" title="Lavasi Mahalleh">
Lavasi Mahalleh

Lavasi Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Lavāsī Maḩalleh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 45, in 13 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074412" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074412" title="Mazi Kalleh">
Mazi Kalleh

Mazi Kalleh (, also Romanized as Māzī Kalleh; also known as Muzikalah) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 131, in 34 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074414" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074414" title="Mian Gavaber, Lahijan">
Mian Gavaber, Lahijan

Mian Gavaber (, also Romanized as Mīān Gavāber; also known as Miyangaver) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 18, in 4 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074416" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074416" title="Mian Mahalleh-ye Zakleh Bar">
Mian Mahalleh-ye Zakleh Bar

Mian Mahalleh-ye Zakleh Bar (, also Romanized as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Zākleh Bar; also known as Zāklebar and Zāklīvar) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 274, in 77 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074419" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074419" title="Molla Mahalleh-ye Chehel Setun">
Molla Mahalleh-ye Chehel Setun

Molla Mahalleh-ye Chehel Setun (, also Romanized as Mollā Maḩalleh-ye Chehel Setūn; also known as Chehel Setūn) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 84, in 23 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074420" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074420" title="Pain Bijar Ankish">
Pain Bijar Ankish

Pain Bijar Ankish (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Bījār Ankīsh; also known as Bījār Ankīsh-e Pā’īn) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 16, in 4 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074422" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074422" title="Pain Narenj Lengeh">
Pain Narenj Lengeh

Pain Narenj Lengeh (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Nārenj Lengeh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 192, in 40 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074424" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074424" title="Pain Tamushal">
Pain Tamushal

Pain Tamushal (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Tamūshal; also known as Pāeenmaḩalleh-ye Tamūshal) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 245, in 65 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074425" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074425" title="Qazi Gavaber">
Qazi Gavaber

Qazi Gavaber (, also Romanized as Qāẕī Gavāber) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 54, in 16 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074426" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074426" title="Rahdar Khaneh, Gilan">
Rahdar Khaneh, Gilan

Rahdar Khaneh (, also Romanized as Rāhdār Khāneh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 36, in 10 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074429" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074429" title="Sadat Mahalleh, Ahandan">
Sadat Mahalleh, Ahandan

Sadat Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Sādāt Maḩalleh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 862, in 225 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074431" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074431" title="Salehbar">
Salehbar

Salehbar (, also Romanized as Şāleḩbar) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 76, in 20 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074432" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074432" title="Sharam Lengeh">
Sharam Lengeh

Sharam Lengeh () is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 55, in 14 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074435" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074435" title="Sukhteh Kuh, Lahijan">
Sukhteh Kuh, Lahijan

Sukhteh Kuh (, also Romanized as Sūkhteh Kūh; also known as Sūkhtkūh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 340, in 92 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074437" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074437" title="Ishgah, Lahijan">
Ishgah, Lahijan

Ishgah (, also Romanized as Īshgāh; also known as Īshkā’) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 373, in 102 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074438" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074438" title="Anarestan, Gilan">
Anarestan, Gilan

Anarestan (, also Romanized as Anārestān and Anarstan) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 419, in 127 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074439" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074439" title="Lotf Ali Khan">
Lotf Ali Khan

Lotf Ali Khan () (c. 1769 – 1794) was the last Shah of Persia (reigned 1789–1794) of the Zand dynasty.

Lotf Ali Khan Zand came to power after a decade of infighting among a succession of violent and inept Zand chiefs following the death in 1779 of the dynasty's founder, Karim Khan Zand. Their failure to agree on a successor and to govern with the same benevolence as Karim Khan eroded public faith in the Zands. An increasing number of local and regional leaders began aligning themselves with the eunuch Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar, who sought to defeat and succeed the Zands.

The son of Jafar Khan, Lotf Ali Khan claimed the throne in 1789 upon the death of his father. Jafar Khan had been poisoned by a slave bribed by a rival family member, Sayed Morad Khan Zand. On hearing of his father's murder, Lotf Ali Khan marched to the Zand capital of Shiraz. Sayed Morad Khan was forced to surrender and was executed.

Soon after assuming his title, Lotf Ali Khan's principal rival, Agha Mohammad Khan of the Qajar dynasty, marched south to Shiraz. Their two armies met outside of the city in a battle in which Agha Mohammad Khan prevailed, using camels to scare the Zand horses on the battlefield. Despite this defeat, the Zand leader was able to hold Shiraz until the Qajar forces withdrew to Tehran.

The following year, 1790, Lotf Ali Khan led his forces against the Governor of Kerman, who had refused to appear in person to acknowledge the Zand leader. This campaign failed due to harsh winter conditions which led to the loss of a large number of men.

In 1791, Lotf Ali Khan marched to reestablish his control over Isfahan. He had grown increasingly suspicious of the loyalties of Haji Ibrahim, the kalantar of Shiraz. As a result, he took the kalantar's son with him. Once the Zand army had left the city, Haji Ibrahim had the remaining Zand officers arrested and sent word to his brother, a member of Lotf Ali's army, that the city was now under his control. A mutiny ensued and Lotf Ali and several hundred loyal soldiers fled back to Shiraz, where they found the gates barred against them. Fearing reprisals against their families locked within the gates, most of Lotf Ali's men deserted him.

With only a handful of followers remaining, the Zand ruler then fled to Bushehr. Here, too, he encountered a hostile local leader. With the help of a sympathetic governor in the port city of Bandar Rig Lotf Ali Khan managed to raise a small army made up of sympathetic locals. With their help, Lotf Ali defeated an attack from Bushire and Kazerun. The governor of Kazerun was captured and blinded, an impulsive act by Lotf Ali Khan that "weakened the sympathy which his youth, his courage, and his misfortunes were so calculated to incite."

Emboldened, Lotf Ali Khan returned to Shiraz, which Haji Ibrahim had offered to Agha Mohammad Khan. There he defeated an army led by Mostafa Qoli Khan Qajar. Lotf Ali Khan's smaller force also succeeded in repelling the attack of a second Qajar force. At this point, Agha Mohammad Khan himself led 30–40 thousand men against the much smaller Zand army.

In a pivotal battle near Persepolis whose outcome would determine the leadership of the nation, Lotf Ali Khan gained the upper hand over the much larger Qajar army, launching a nighttime raid on the main camp of the Agha Mohammad Khan. As the Qajar soldiers scattered, Lotf Ali assumed Agha Mohammad Khan had fled with them and that the camp was secured. He forbade his men from plundering the camp and withdrew to wait for sunrise. But Agha Mohammad Khan had remained hidden in the royal pavilion. At dawn the call to prayer signaled that the Qajar army had regrouped. Lotf Ali Khan had no choice but to retreat. (An alternate version of this story suggests that Lotf Ali Khan was tricked into waiting until daybreak to enter the enemy camp on advice of a Qajar spy named Mirza Fathollah-e Ardelani.)

He and his followers fled first to Kerman (1792), but with the Qajars in pursuit they were forced to Tabas. With the aid of a sympathetic governor in Tabas, Lotf Ali attempted without success to retake Shiraz. At this time, the former Zand capital was firmly under the control of Agha Mohammad Khan. In July 1792, the Qajar shah ordered the family and harem of Lotf Ali Khan and other Zand nobles and their families sent to his new capital, Tehran.

Repelled in his effort to reclaim Shiraz, Lotf Ali Khan decided to travel east to Kandahar in modern-day Afghanistan to solicit the aid of Timur Shah, but after a few days he learned of Timur Shah's death. Feeling indecisive and depressed Lotf Ali Khan turned back. His spirits were restored by pledges of support from tribal leaders from Bam and Narmashir. Bolstered by an additional 1,000 horsemen Lotf Ali Khan took Kerman in 1794. He held the city for four months against Agha Mohammad Khan and a large army. During this time gold coins were struck in Kerman in tribute to the Zand leader. One of these coins found its way to Agha Mohammad Khan who was so enraged that he sent orders that Fatollah Khan, the son of Lotf Ali who had been taken to Tehran with other Zand nobility, was to be castrated. As the siege of Kerman wore on, some troops became disaffected and ultimately opened the citadel gates to the Qajar army. After a three-hour battle Lotf Ali fled by night to Bam.

Agha Mohammad Khan exacted a brutal revenge on the people of Kerman for harboring his enemy. All the male inhabitants were killed or blinded, and a pile was made out of 20,000 detached eyeballs and poured in front of the victorious Qajar leader. The women and children were sold into slavery, and the city was destroyed over ninety days.

Finally, Lotf Ali Khan was betrayed by the ruler of Bam who feared that his brother had fallen into Qajar hands in Kerman. Lotf Ali Khan was captured soon after, nearby. According to legend, Lotf Ali Khan fought 14 men single-handedly for two full hours before falling.

The last of the Zand rulers was finally delivered to Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar, who had long waited to exact revenge on his arch-rival. "The page of history would be stained by a recital of the indignities offered to the royal captive..." It is reported that Lotf Ali Khan was blinded. Lotf Ali Khan was imprisoned and tortured in Tehran for nearly three years before being choked to death.

The British writer Sir Harford Jones Brydges knew Lotf Ali, whom he called, "the last chivalrous figure among the kings of Persia." Brydges writes sadly of Lotf Ali's death, of his "little son" who was castrated, his daughters who were forced to marry "the scum of the earth" and his wife who was dishonored.

Accounts of Lotf Ali Khan's personality and behavior depict a person of courage and perseverance who inspired great loyalty among his followers. Had he been able to defeat Agha Mohammad Khan, he might have restored his family's dynasty and its good name. But a fatal mistake in a pivotal battle effectively ended Lotf Ali Khan's ambitions. With his defeat, the 44-year reign of the Zands came to an end and the first chapter in the 131-year Qajar Dynasty was written.

His tomb is in Emamzadeh Zeid in the Old Bazaar of Tehran. His portrait is in the Museum of Fine Arts in Sadabad Palace. It is said that Lotf Ali Khan was uniquely handsome and tremendously skillful with the sword.

Today one of the main avenues in Shiraz bears Lotf Ali Khan Zand's name. In Shiraz and other cities, streets bear the name of the Zand patriarch Karim Khan. They are the only former rulers of Persia whose names have been preserved in this way in the post-revolutionary period. This is largely due to the fact that Karim Khan Zand never claimed the title of king or shah, but chose simply to declare himself the advocate or regent of the people.



</doc>
<doc id="41074441" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074441" title="Bala Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar">
Bala Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar

Bala Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar (, also Romanized as Bālā Maḩalleh-ye Golrūdbār and Bālā Maḩalleh-ye Gol-e Rūdbār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 209, in 63 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074442" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074442" title="Baz Kia Gurab">
Baz Kia Gurab

Baz Kia Gurab (, also Romanized as Bāz Kīā Gūrāb, Bāzkīā Gūrāb, Bāz Kīyā Gūrāb, and Bāz Keyā Gūrāb; also known as Bāzgīā Gūrāb, Bazkiya Koorab, Bāzkiya Qurāb, Blzkiya-Kurab, and Keyā Gūrāb) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 4,213, in 1,220 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074444" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074444" title="Bahador Kalayeh">
Bahador Kalayeh

Bahador Kalayeh (, also Romanized as Bahādor Kalāyeh) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 199, in 71 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074449" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074449" title="Don R. Pears">
Don R. Pears

Don R. Pears was a Republican politician from Michigan who served in the Michigan House of Representatives, and as its Speaker during the 70th and 71st Legislatures. He also served as register of deeds and later as clerk of Berrien County.

A lifelong resident of southwest Michigan, Pears was a school principal and a real estate broker. He was also a veteran of the U.S. Army and a member of the American Legion, the Veterans of Foreign Wars, AMVETS, and the Reserve Officers Association, as well as of the Elks, Eagles, Moose, and Odd Fellows.


</doc>
<doc id="41074455" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074455" title="List of Roman tribunes">
List of Roman tribunes

The following is a list of Roman tribunes as reported by ancient sources.

A tribune in ancient Rome was a person who held one of a number of offices, including Tribune of the plebs (a political office to represent the interests of the plebs), Military tribune (a rank in the Roman army), Tribune of the Celeres (the commander of the king's personal bodyguard), and various other positions. Unless otherwise noted, all dates are reported in BC.

The following individuals held the position of Tribune of the Celeres "(Tribunus Celerum)", the captain of the king's bodyguard who had authority to preside over the Curiate Assembly ("Comitia Curiata") during the period of the Roman Kingdom (753–509).

The following individuals held the position of Tribune of the Plebs "(Tribunus Plebis") during the Roman Republic, starting with the creation of the office in 493 BC.



</doc>
<doc id="41074463" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074463" title="Mian Gavaber">
Mian Gavaber

Mian Gavaber () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074488" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074488" title="The Nation Institute">
The Nation Institute

The Nation Institute is a nonprofit media organization associated with "The Nation" magazine. It sponsors fellows, hosts forums, publishes, and is involved in awards for journalism. Orville Schell worked for The Nation Institute. David Weir is a member of the group's editorial board. The Nation Institute fellows have included Wayne Barrett, Chris Hedges, David Moberg and Jeremy Scahill. The group has also funded documentaries by Habiba Nosheen. Chris Hayes was a Puffin Foundation Writing Fellow at The Nation Institute from 2006 through 2007.

The Nation Institute is one of the presenters of the Ridenhour Prize. Antonia Juhasz is a reporter with the Investigative Fund of The Nation Institute. Dana Goldstein is a Puffin Fellow at The Nation Institute. Lee Fang is a reporting fellow at The Nation Institute and a contributing writer at "The Nation". Tom Engelhardt is the creator of The Nation Institute's tomdispatch.com, an online blog.

The Puffin/Nation Prize for Creative Citizenship is an American award citation given jointly by The Nation Institute and the Puffin Foundation.

The Nation Institute started Nation Books in 2000, in partnership with Thunder's Mouth Press. In 2007, Perseus Books Group acquired Avalon Publishing Group, which was the parent company of Thunder's Mouth Press. Nation Books' current partner imprint is PublicAffairs.




</doc>
<doc id="41074500" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074500" title="Robert Wade-Gery">
Robert Wade-Gery

Sir Robert Wade-Gery (22 April 1929 – 16 February 2015) was a British diplomat who was High Commissioner to India 1982–87.

Robert Lucian Wade-Gery was educated at Winchester College and New College, Oxford, where he achieved a double first class degree. He then passed the examination to become a Fellow of All Souls 1951–58; subsequently he was a "Fifty-Pound Fellow" 1959–73 and a "Two-Year Fellow" 1987–89; he was an Honorary Fellow from 2011 until his death in 2015. At the same time he joined the Foreign Service in 1951 and served at Bonn, Tel Aviv and Saigon as well as posts at the Foreign Office (later the Foreign and Commonwealth Office). He was Minister at Madrid 1973–77 and at Moscow 1977–79, deputy Secretary of the Cabinet 1979–82, and High Commissioner to India 1982–87. He then left the Diplomatic Service and was a director of Barclays Capital 1987–99. He was a member and treasurer (1991–2005) of the International Institute for Strategic Studies, and was chairman of the governors of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University of London (1990–1999).

Wade-Gery was appointed CMG in the Queen's Birthday Honours of 1979, knighted KCMG in the New Year Honours of 1983 and given the additional knighthood of KCVO in November 1983.

Robert Wade-Gery was the son of Theodore Wade-Gery who was professor of Ancient History in the University of Oxford.



</doc>
<doc id="41074513" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074513" title="Ali Al-Wardi">
Ali Al-Wardi

Ali Al-Wardi () was an Iraqi Social Scientist specialized in the field of Social history.

Born in Kadhimiya, Baghdad in 1913, to a religious and a very traditional family. He grew up defying his family's strict no-modern-education policy, where his father wanted him to learn a craft instead of reading books. Nevertheless, Al-Wardi grow up with a disliking for work and a strong liking for books.

He managed to finish his elementary and high school and awarded the number one student on the Kingdom of Iraq. He later was appointed as a teacher in many elementary and high schools across Iraq, before winning a scholarship to the American University of Beirut where he received his Bachelor's degree in 1943. He was back to Iraq and was forced to be married by his father's orders.

However, in few years travelled to the United States to attain his Masters and Ph.D. degrees, he earned his Masters degree in 1948 from The University of Texas and his Ph.D. in 1950 from the same university. During that time he used to spend his summers in the United Kingdom learning English in available institutes.

He came back to Iraq to start his career in writing many of his books based on the theory of Ibn Khaldun about "Al-Badwa" (Nomadic society) vs "Al-Hadhara" (Civil society).

The most important works ofAli Al-Wardi are:


In 2014, the Iraqi Ministry of Culture, through its publishing house, Dar al-Mamoon, has commissioned a team of the best Iraqi translators to translate al-Wardi's major work لمحات اجتماعية من تاريخ العراق الحديث (Social Glimpses of Iraq's Modern History), and Yasin T. al-Jibouri, is one of them. Al-Jibouri's contribution is the translation of Volume Six and its supplement which is renamed Volume Seven.



</doc>
<doc id="41074539" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074539" title="Golrudbar">
Golrudbar

Golrudbar or Gol-e Rudbar or Galrudbar or Gelrudbar or Gol Roodbar (), also rendered as Gil-i-Rudbar or Gul-i-Rudbar or Kolrudbar, may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074540" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074540" title="Chormaqan">
Chormaqan

Chormaqan (also Chormagan or Chormaqan Noyan) (died c. 1241) was one of the most famous generals of the Mongol Empire under Genghis Khan and Ögedei Khan. He was also a member of the keshik.

Chormaqan is mentioned in "The Secret History of Mongols" many times. He probably participated in the Mongol campaigns in North China and later in the Subutai's and Jebe's famous journey through Caucasus and Russian steppes. Appointed by Ögedei in the winter of 1230 to renew the Mongol conquests in Persia, which had languished since Genghis Khan's assault on and near destruction of the Khwarezmid Empire from 1218 to 1223.

At the approach of Chormagan and the new Mongol army, the Khwarezmids under Jalal ad-Din were swept away. Further campaigns in the mid-1230s, based from the steppes in Azerbaijan around Tabriz, firmly established the Kingdom of Georgia and Armenian Kingdom of Cilicia as vassals. It is theorized that these moves may have been made to secure communications for the attack westward led by Batu that followed shortly thereafter.

Chormaqan died around 1241 and was replaced by Baiju, his lieutenant. His son Shiramun later served under the Il-khans Hulagu and Abaqa. His daughter Esukan was married to King David VII of Georgia.



</doc>
<doc id="41074589" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074589" title="Woodson Farmstead">
Woodson Farmstead

Woodson Farmstead was a historic agricultural property located off of Three Bridges Road near the intersection of South Carolina Highway 153 in Powdersville, South Carolina. It consisted of an early twentieth century fruit and pecan grove, a ca. 1875 well house and cotton house and a farmhouse built in 1895. The property was originally purchased in 1850 by William Woodson, who sold the property to his nephew, James Allen Woodson in 1892. It is listed on the National Register of Historic Places (NRHP).

In 1895, James Woodson commissioned Washington, D.C.-based builder John O. Scheck to design and construct his farmhouse. Unlike a typical farmhouse in the region, the two-story house was built with Eastlake and Queen Anne ornamentation including stained glass windows and an elaborately detailed porch.

The farmhouse was the last building standing and it was demolished in 2011. However, the farmstead has not been delisted from the NRHP as of November 13, 2013.


</doc>
<doc id="41074591" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074591" title="Chafal">
Chafal

Chafal (, also Romanized as Chofel; also known as Chepul, Chofīl, Pol-e Shomrūd, and Shamrūd) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 401, in 125 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074594" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074594" title="Delijan, Lahijan">
Delijan, Lahijan

Delijan (, also Romanized as Delījān) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 130, in 38 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074596" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074596" title="Deh Sar, Baz Kia Gurab">
Deh Sar, Baz Kia Gurab

Dehsar () is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 432, in 127 families. The village is surrounded by rice fields which is the main job of most people who live here.

دهسر روستایی از توابع دهستان بازکیاگوراب می باشد و طبق آخرین آمار، جمعیت آن 432 نفر (127خانواده) بوده است.


</doc>
<doc id="41074598" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074598" title="Derapeshtan">
Derapeshtan

Derapeshtan (, also Romanized as Derāpeshtān) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 192, in 60 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074599" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074599" title="Hajjiabad, Lahijan">
Hajjiabad, Lahijan

Hajjiabad (, also Romanized as Ḩājjīābād) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,673, in 468 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074602" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074602" title="Khalu Bagh">
Khalu Bagh

Khalu Bagh (, also Romanized as Khālū Bāgh) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,057, in 300 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074605" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074605" title="Kolashta Jan">
Kolashta Jan

Kolashta Jan (, also Romanized as Kolashtā Jān and Koleshtājān; also known as Kolashtjān and Kulushtladzhan) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 805, in 257 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074606" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074606" title="Lashidan-e Hokumati">
Lashidan-e Hokumati

Lashidan-e Hokumati (, also Romanized as Lāshīdān-e Ḩokūmatī) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,425, in 402 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074607" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074607" title="Malbijar">
Malbijar

Malbijar (, also Romanized as Mālbījār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 158, in 42 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074609" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074609" title="Pain Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar">
Pain Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar

Pain Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Maḩalleh-ye Golrūdbār and Pā’īn Maḩalleh-ye Gol-e Rūdbār; also known as Galrūdbār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 188, in 58 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074610" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074610" title="Mian Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar">
Mian Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar

Mian Mahalleh-ye Golrudbar (, also Romanized as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Golrūdbār; also known as Gelrūdbār, Gil-i-Rudbar, Gol Roodbar, Golrūdbār, Gul-i-Rūdbār, and Kolrūdbār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 503, in 145 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074611" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074611" title="Sadat Mahalleh, Baz Kia Gurab">
Sadat Mahalleh, Baz Kia Gurab

Sadat Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Sādāt Maḩalleh; also known as Sādāt Maḩalleh-ye Gelrūdbār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 198, in 56 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074613" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074613" title="David Bews">
David Bews

David Bews (April 1850 – 24 February 1891) was a newspaper editor, politician in colonial South Australia and Minister of Education. He was a member of the South Australian House of Assembly from 1885 until his death in 1891, representing the electorate of Wallaroo.

Bews was born near Kirkwall, in the Orkney Islands of Scotland, and went to South Australia with his parents the following year. In 1853, during the gold rush in Victoria, his family removed to that colony, but only to return one year later. Bews' father then engaged in farming operations near Port Elliot, and afterwards near Adelaide. Bews was educated at Allen Martin's school in Port Adelaide then worked as a farmer until he reached the age of majority, when he secured a position as clerk with the Kadina & Wallaroo Railway Company. He subsequently became goods manager, but seven years later (in 1878), when the Government took over the line, he left the service to work for the "Kadina and Wallaroo Times". He soon became editor of the newspaper, serving in that position for the rest of his life. He was mayor of the Corporate Town of Wallaroo from 1880 to 1882, besides which he was a member of the Yorke's Peninsula Board of Main Roads and the School Board of Advice.

Bews was elected to the South Australian House of Assembly on 16 February 1885, at a by-election following the resignation of Henry Allerdale Grainger; he had previously contested and lost the seat at the 1884 election. Bews was re-elected on 19 March 1887, and at the 1890 election. In August of that year he accepted the office of Minister of Education in Thomas Playford II's Government. Bews, who had been appointed one of the South Australian delegates at the Postal Convention, died in Melbourne whilst en route to Sydney on 24 February 1891. A memorial fountain in honour of Bews was constructed in 1893.


</doc>
<doc id="41074614" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074614" title="Shakakom">
Shakakom

Shakakom (, also Romanized as Shakākom) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 391, in 120 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074615" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074615" title="Joel Adams">
Joel Adams

Joel Adams (February 4, 1750 – July 9, 1830) was a prolific planter and soldier from lower Richland County, South Carolina. Adams was a leader of South Carolina Militia forces during the American Revolution and also served in the Continental Army. Adams married Grace Weston, daughter of William Weston, and they had seven children.

Adams was instrumental in the successful agricultural development of central part of South Carolina in the 18th century, and was influential in the political structure of the state being centered in Columbia, South Carolina at the time. He was a strong proponent of education, and of military and political service to state and to country, and served in the South Carolina House of Representatives.

Two of his sons, Joel Adams II (1784–1859) and William Weston Adams (1786–1831), graduated from Yale University and served in the South Carolina House of Representatives. His grandson, James Hopkins Adams, graduated from Yale University, and was the 66th Governor of South Carolina from 1854 to 1857. His grandson, James Uriah Adams (1812–1871), was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, and a graduate of Yale University. Joel's grandson James Pickett Adams (1828–1904) was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives, and was Major in the Confederate States Army. 

His grandson Robert Adams II was a captain in the Confederate Army, and his life was depicted in the film "".

Joel's great grandson Warren Adams (1838–1884) was a lieutenant colonel in the Confederate Army and was in command of the First South Carolina Infantry Regiment at Battery Wagner. Warren graduated from The Citadel in 1859, where he was the Commandant of the Corps of Cadets.

His great grandson Henry Walker Adams (1852-1903), son of James Uriah Adams, served in The South Carolina House of Representatives.
The South Carolina author and physician Dr. Edward Clarkson Leverett Adams (1876–1946) was the double great-great grandson of Joel, and was a member of The South Carolina House of Representatives. 
E.C.L. Adams was the great grandson of Joel Adams II and James Adams, two of Joel's sons. He was the author of a number of books including "Tales of the Congaree". African American author, and Harlem Renaissance leader, Langston Hughes visited E.C.L. Adams at his home in South Carolina and said of Adams that he "was exactly my idea of what a "true" Southern gentleman should be."
His descendant Weston Adams served in the South Carolina House of Representatives, and was also a United States Ambassador.

Joel Adams is buried at St. John's Congaree Episcopal Church in Congaree, South Carolina.



</doc>
<doc id="41074618" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074618" title="Tabar Kalayeh">
Tabar Kalayeh

Tabar Kalayeh (, also Romanized as Tabar Kalāyeh; also known as Tabar Kalā-ye Gelrūdbār and Tabar Kalā-ye Kalrūdbār) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 209, in 69 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074619" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074619" title="Tustan, Baz Kia Gurab">
Tustan, Baz Kia Gurab

Tustan (, also Romanized as Tūstān and Toostan) is a village in Baz Kia Gurab Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,013, in 296 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074621" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074621" title="Bala Mahalleh-ye Lafmejan">
Bala Mahalleh-ye Lafmejan

Bala Mahalleh-ye Lafmejan (, also Romanized as Bālā Maḩalleh-ye Lafmejān; also known as Lafmajān, Lafmejān, Lafmudzhan, and Lafmujān) is a village in Lafmejan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 198, in 68 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074624" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074624" title="Bala Shad Deh">
Bala Shad Deh

Bala Shad Deh (, also Romanized as Bālā Shād Deh; also known as Bālā Shādeh and Shādeh) is a village in Lafmejan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 291, in 93 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074625" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074625" title="Bazar Deh">
Bazar Deh

Bazar Deh (, also Romanized as Bāzār Deh) is a village in Lafmejan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 83, in 31 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074626" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074626" title="Bala Mahalleh-ye Pashaki">
Bala Mahalleh-ye Pashaki

Bala Mahalleh-ye Pashaki (, also Romanized as Bālā Maḩalleh-ye Pāshākī; also known as Pashakh, Pāshākī, Pāshākī Bālā Maḩalleh, and Pāshkī) is a village in Lafmejan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,494, in 509 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074631" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074631" title="Sultan Ahmad of Brunei">
Sultan Ahmad of Brunei

Ahmad of Brunei (also known as Awang Pateh Berbai or Pateh Berbai) was the second Sultan of Brunei. He was the brother of the first sultan Muhammad Shah of Brunei. He ascended the throne in 1408 and changed his name to Ahmad. He was succeeded on his death by his son-in-law Sharif Ali.

He was the first "Pengiran Bendahara" (Vizier) in Brunei, later given the title "Pengiran Bendahara Seri Maharaja Permaisuara". He married the younger sister of Ong Sum Ping (also known as Pengiran Maharaja Lela). Sultan Ahmad died in 1425, while his son Nakhoda Angging was Brunei Maharaja in the Sulu and thus, was succeeded by his son-in-law, Sultan Seri Ali or Sharif Ali, the great Sufi Berkat.



</doc>
<doc id="41074633" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074633" title="Ambrosio O'Higgins, 1st Marquess of Osorno">
Ambrosio O'Higgins, 1st Marquess of Osorno

Ambrosio Bernardo O'Higgins, 1st Marquess of Osorno (c. 1720 – March 19, 1801) born Ambrose Bernard O'Higgins ("Ambrós Bearnárd Ó hUiginn", in Irish), was a Spanish colonial administrator and a member of the O'Higgins family. He served the Spanish Empire as captain general (i.e., military governor) of Chile (1788–1796) and viceroy of Peru (1796–1801). Chilean independence leader Bernardo O'Higgins was his son.

A member of the O'Higgins family, Ambrose was born at his family's ancestral seat in Ballynary, County Sligo, Ireland; the son of Charles O'Higgins and his wife (and kinswoman) Margaret O'Higgins, who having lost their lands in Sligo migrated and became tenant farmers at Clondoogan near Summerhill in County Meath ca. 1721. Along with other members of his family Ambrose worked in the service of the Rowley-Langford family of Summerhill House. In fact Ambrose is said to have been employed by Lady Jane Rowley.

In 1751, O'Higgins arrived at Cádiz, where he dedicated himself to commerce as an employee of the Butler Trading House. As an Irishman and a Catholic, he was able to emigrate legally to Spanish America in 1756. Once there, and for some time, he was an itinerant trader in Venezuela, New Granada, and Peru, but, being investigated by the Inquisition, he moved to La Plata Colony, in present-day Argentina, where he tried some commercial ventures. From there, O'Higgins proposed to open easy communication between Chile and Mendoza by a way over the Andes, and, his proposition being accepted, he was employed to supervise the project.

About 1760, O'Higgins enrolled in the Spanish Imperial Service as draughtsman and then engineer. He was directly responsible for the establishment of a reliable postal service between La Plata colony and the General Captaincy of Chile. On his first harrowing journey over the Andes mountains separating Argentina and Chile during the winter of 1763–64, O'Higgins conceived the idea of a chain of weatherproof shelters. By 1766, thanks to O'Higgins' efficient execution of this plan, Chile enjoyed all-year overland postal service with Argentina, which had previously been cut off for several months each winter.

In 1764, John Garland, another Irish engineer at the service of Spain who was military governor of Valdivia, convinced him to move to the neighbouring, and less established, colony of Chile as his assistant. He was initially commissioned as a junior subaltern in the Spanish army. In 1770, now in his late forties, the Governor of Chile appointed him captain of a column of cavalry to resist the attacks of the Araucanian Indians, whom he defeated, founding the fort of San Carlos in the south of the province of Arauco. He gained the good-will of the Indians by his humanity and benevolence, and recovered big swathes of territory that had been lost by the Spaniards.

He rose quickly in the ranks. As a consequence of his services viceroy Manuel de Amat appointed him, on 7 September 1777, a colonel in the army. He soon rose to be brigadier, and viceroy Teodoro de Croix appointed him Intendant of Concepción in 1786. In 1788, in return for his efforts in South America, King Charles III of Spain created O'Higgins as "1st Barón de Ballinar" (a title of the Spanish Crown not to be confused with the family's existing Gaelic title), and promoted him to major-general. Soon afterward he became Captain General and Governor of Chile.

As governor of Chile, one of the most troublesome, poor, and remote of Spanish outposts, O'Higgins was extremely active, promoting the construction of a definitive road between the capital Santiago and the port of Valparaíso (part of the layout of which is still in use today), continued the building of the Palacio de la Moneda in Santiago, improved roads, and erected permanent dikes along the banks of the Mapocho river which regularly flooded Santiago. He founded cities including San Ambrosio de Ballenary, now Vallenar (1789); Villa de San Francisco de Borja de Combarbalá, now Combarbalá (1789); Villa San Rafael de Rozas, now Illapel (1789); Santa Rosa de los Andes, now Los Andes (1791); San José de Maipo (1792); Nueva Bilbao, now Constitución (1794); Villa de San Ambrosio de Linares, now Linares (1794), and Villa Reina Luisa del Parral, now Parral (1795).

He focused on developing the resources of the country, with an enlightened policy that accomplished much for Spanish interest, but also paved the way for later events in the country's history. He improved communications and trade with other Spanish colonies, based on a growing agricultural base. He abolished the encomienda system whereby natives were forced to work the land for the crown, an act reinforced by royal decree in 1791. He was made lieutenant-general in 1794.

In February 1787, the frigate "Astrea" under the command of Alessandro Malaspina called at Talcahuano, the port of Concepcion, in the course of a commercial circumnavigation of the world on behalf of the Royal Philippines Company. O'Higgins was military governor there at the time, and six months before had recommended that Spain organize an expedition to the Pacific similar to those led by Jean-François de Galaup, comte de Lapérouse and James Cook. O'Higgins had made this recommendation following the visit of the Lapérouse expedition to Concepcion in March 1786, and he presumably discussed it with Malaspina while the "Astrea" was at Concepcion. Following the "Astrea's" return to Spain, Malaspina produced, in partnership with José de Bustamante, a proposal for an expedition along the lines set out in O'Higgins' memorandum.

A short time later, on 14 October 1788, Malaspina was informed of the government's acceptance of his plan. José de Espinoza y Tello, one of the officers of the Malaspina expedition, subsequently confirmed the importance of the information sent by O'Higgins in stimulating the Government to initiate an extensive program of exploration in the Pacific. The prompt acceptance of O'Higgins's and Malaspina's proposal was also stimulated by news from St. Petersburg of preparations for a Russian expedition (the Mulovsky expedition) to the North Pacific under the command of Grigori I. Mulovsky that had as one of its objectives the claiming of territory on the northwest coast of America around Nootka Sound that was also claimed at the time by Spain.

In 1784 the Governor of Chiloé, Francisco Hurtado, and Ambrosio O'Higgins had been ordered to open a way between Maullín and Valdivia over Huilliche territory. This caused alarm among the Huilliche of the Llanos de Osorno (flatlands of Osorno) who decided to ally with the Huilliche Aillarehues of the Río Bueno valley and those around Lake Ranco to the north and ask for the intervention of the Governor of Valdivia, Mariano Pusterla. Mariano Pusterla had good relations with the Huilliches of Río Bueno and Ranco because of his support for pacific contact and missionary campaign, refusing to establish any new fort in the territory. On the other hand, the Governor of Chiloé, Francisco Hurtado, supported instead a hard line against the Huilliches and threatened with a military invasion.

In February 1789 the Treaty of Río Bueno was signed between Huilliche chiefs and colonial authorities. This treaty diverted a possible invasion from Chiloé and gave the Huilliches of Osorno support against the malones of the Aillarehue of Quilacahuín from the authorities of Valdivia. At that point the Huilliches offered to facilitate the opening of the new Camino Real and to allow Spaniards to occupy Osorno, a city that had been abandoned in 1602. In 1792 O'Higgins rebuilt the city of Osorno, and as a reward was created "1st Marquess of Osorno" by King Charles IV of Spain in 1796.

The treaty also allowed Spaniards to settle and form haciendas north of the Bueno River. Abuses from the Spanish and their fast advance in establishing new haciendas made several chiefs change their minds. The caciques Tangol from Río Bueno, Queipul and Catrihuala decided to form an alliance. The Huilliche Rebellion of 1792 began with this event, and they soon started to pillage haciendas and missions with the ultimate aim of assaulting Valdivia, which despite being well defended from north and west, seemed vulnerable for a land attack by the southeast.

Despite the limited extent of the rebellion, that never became a real threat to Valdivia, the Spanish authorities responded to it with rigour. Governor O'Higgins chose captain Tomás de Figueroa to lead the reprisal. Figueroa set fire to rucas and croplands where his troops passed and arrested a large number of male Huilliches as suspected rebels. After that, the Spanish considered it convenient to sign a new treaty with the Huilliche leaders, for which a parliament was held in Las Canoas, in what is now Osorno, in 1793. While in the treaty of Río Bueno the Spanish had been allowed to form haciendas north of Bueno River, establishing that watercourse as a de facto frontier, the Spanish now went on to set up haciendas south of it.

The same year, 1793, a new parliament was held in Negrete on the northern frontier with the aim of ratifying and renewing the older Treaty of Lonquilmo from 1783. Copying older treaties, the King of Spain was confirmed as the sovereign of the Araucanía, while the possession of the land was reserved for the Mapuches, which resulted in a de jure sovereignty of the King of Spain but in a de facto independence of the Mapuche-controlled lands. The treaty celebrations were held from March 4 to March 7, with many banquets of wine and meat being held for the numerous participants. The whole treaty cost 10.897 pesos, which was, according to Diego Barros Arana, an enormous amount of money, considering the size of Chile's treasury.

In 1796, O'Higgins was appointed Viceroy of Peru, comprising present-day Peru and Chile. As Peru was the second richest colony after New Spain (Mexico) in the Spanish empire, the Viceroyship was one of the most prominent posts in all of Spanish America.

When war was declared between England and Spain in 1797, O'Higgins took active measures for the defense of the coast, strengthening the fortifications of Callao and constructing a fort in Pisco. He projected and constructed a new carriage-road from Lima to Callao, and his principal attention during his short administration was directed to the improvement of means of communication.

He died suddenly after a short illness in 1801, and was interred in the Iglesia de San Pablo, now the Jesuit-run Iglesia de San Pedro, Lima.

Archives in Spain and Ireland show that Ambrose O'Higgins was the son of Charles O'Higgins, of Ballynary, County Sligo (son of Roger O'Higgins, of Ballynary, County Sligo, and wife Margaret Brehan), and wife and cousin Margaret O'Higgins (daughter of William O'Higgins and wife Winnifred O'Fallon). Charles O'Higgins' grandfather, Sean Duff O'Higgins, held the Gaelic territorial title of "Tiarna" or Lord of Ballinary, and he was married to an O'Conor, daughter of the Royal House of O'Conor of Ballintober Castle, which ruled Ireland until the year 1000.

The O'Higgins family were a sept of the O'Neill dynasty who migrated to Sligo in the 12th century. As Gaelic nobles they had owned great expanses of land particularly in the Irish counties of Sligo and Westmeath, but with the expropriations of Catholics by Oliver Cromwell, and the deportation of tenants to County Sligo after the Cromwellian conquest of Ireland ca. 1654, the O'Higgins' lands became smaller and smaller.

Due to this encroachment into their land, the O'Higgins family migrated to Summerhill in County Meath, where they became lowly tenant farmers and worked in the service of the Rowley-Langford family. Their descendants remain in Summerhill however; Bridget O'Higgins who died in 1947 was the last in Summerhill to carry the family name as others had emigrated to the US and migrated to Dublin. The O'Higgins graves are located in The Moy and Agher cemeteries, both within the boundaries of the Roman Catholic parish of Dangan in Summerhill.

In 1777, Ambrosio O'Higgins became acquainted with the powerful Riquelme family from Chillán, and fell in love with the daughter, Isabel Riquelme, almost forty years his junior (she was 18 or 19 at the time, while he was 57 years old). He promised marriage, but colonial law forbade marriage between public officials and "criolla" women without authorization of the crown. To disregard this law was to risk career and position. It is not known why he did not seek permission, but no marriage ensued even when Isabel became pregnant.

Isabel gave birth to Ambrosio's only son, Bernardo, in August 1778. Bernardo O'Higgins would later lead Chile to its independence from the Spanish Empire. Two years later, Isabel married Félix Rodríguez with whom she had a daughter, Rosa Rodríguez Riquelme. Though Ambrosio O'Higgins never saw or officially recognised his son as his legal heir, he paid for his education in England and left him a portion of his possessions in Peru and Chile.

Bernardo O'Higgins led Chile as Supreme Director from 1818 to 1823 when he was forced to resign and go into exile with his mother, sister and son Demetrio O'Higgins in Peru. Demetrio, who visited his relatives in Summerhill in 1862, had no sons and consequently all his descendants are in the female line.

There are various towns, bays, and other Spanish discoveries in the Americas which were named after his birthplace during his time as Viceroy, such as Vallenar (originally named "San Ambrosio de Ballenary", later Hispanicized to Vallenar) in Chile and Vallenar Bay in Alaska.





</doc>
<doc id="41074635" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074635" title="Puffin Foundation">
Puffin Foundation

The Puffin Foundation, established in 1983, is a non-profit organization that aims to amplify the voices of minorities who may underrepresented due to their race, gender, social philosophy, etc. The foundation achieves this mission of fostering free expression by providing grants and resources to local artists and art organizations. 

Ultimately, the goal of the Puffin Foundation is to provide people with an understanding that every single person can go out and make change happen.

The Puffin Foundation, with more than $14 million in assets split between two independent entities, was seeded with the fortune Perry Rosenstein made in the Allen screw business. He got into the fasteners industry as a salesman. As he made the rounds on his accounts, he found several buyers who wanted diversity in Allen screws. He saw an opening in the market and began making screws in Japan. As an outsider in the industry, he faced stiff competition in the business. That experience has partly informed his interests in providing grants to artists and thinkers who do not usually secure grant money from more traditional foundations. He says he wants to make the fight a fair one.

Through his Teaneck, New Jersey-based foundation, Rosenstein states his mission as to fund "as many different areas of expression as possible." Largely, he funds progressive or liberal work. The Bronx-native says that he attended his first protest as a boy atop his father's shoulders.

"I happen to be one of many people that believes in our country and our democracy," said Rosenstein. "I feel that if democracy is threatened, we are all threatened."

The foundation has two grant cycles per year. The first cycle, which occurs between the months of January and June, typically allocates grant of $1000 to $2500 to individual artists and arts organizations. The second cycle funds media and awards grants to publications that do investigative reporting on issues like labor, the environment, LGBTQ concerns, feminism and women’s issues.

Over the years, the foundation has continued to broaden its scope. In 1997, the foundation began a project known as the Puffin Cultural Forum, which funds and hosts performances as well as art exhibits at 20 Puffin Way in Teaneck, NJ. For instance, the Puffin Foundation collaborates with The Nation Institute, on an annual human rights award, the Puffin/Nation Prize for Creative Citizenship, which is given to someone who has done distinctive and courageous social justice work. Thus far, the foundation has awarded this honor to Dolores Huerta of the United Farm Workers, Robert Moses of the Algebra Project, the founders of the Innocence Project, and Cecile Richards of Planned Parenthood. 

The Puffin, a species whose nesting sites were endangered by encroaching civilization, were encouraged to return to their native habitats through the constructive efforts of a concerned citizenry. The Foundation has adopted the name Puffin as a metaphor for how it perceives its mission, which is to ensure that the arts continue to grow and enrich our lives. In so doing it has joined with other concerned groups and individuals toward achieving that goal.


</doc>
<doc id="41074636" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074636" title="Moving On (Sarah Dawn Finer song)">
Moving On (Sarah Dawn Finer song)

"Moving On" is a song written by Fredrik Kempe and Sarah Dawn Finer, and performed by Sarah Dawn Finer at Melodifestivalen 2009, where it ended up 6th.

The song participated in the 4th semifinal in Malmö on 28 February 2009, dueling against Malena Ernman's song "La Voix" that reached the final. Sarah Dawn Finer's song reached "Andra chansen" in Norrköping on 7 March 2009. The song also became the choice of the international jury. At Andra chansen the song dueled against Scotts' "Jag tror på oss" and Lili & Susie's "Show Me Heaven", but managed to reach the finals together with Caroline af Ugglas's song "Snälla, snälla".

The song also charted at Svensktoppen, entering on 19 April 2009 where it stayed for 22 weeks. before leaving the chart in late September 2009.


</doc>
<doc id="41074682" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074682" title="Wata Rauma">
Wata Rauma

Wata Rauma is a general entertainment and human interest TV program currently broadcast on Siyatha TV. The program is presented by Tharindu Wimalaweera and Shehan Perera.


</doc>
<doc id="41074695" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074695" title="Charles E. Sheedy">
Charles E. Sheedy

Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C. (July 1, 1912 – April 17, 1990) was an American priest and theologian of the Congregation of Holy Cross and an administrator at the University of Notre Dame.

Fr. Sheedy was born on July 1, 1912, to Patrick and Estelle (Brennan) Sheedy in Pittsburgh, PA. The fifth of six children, his birth was preceded by siblings Morgan, Donald, John, and Leo, and followed by Herman. He earned a Bachelor of Arts degree from Notre Dame in 1933, a Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Pittsburgh in 1936, and a Licentiate of Sacred Theology in 1945 and a Doctor of Sacred Theology from the Catholic University of America in 1946.

Father Sheedy entered the faculty of Notre Dame in 1945. Fr. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C. appointed Fr. Sheedy dean of the University of Notre Dame’s College of Arts and Letters in 1951, a post he held until 1969. He was a professor in the Department of Theology (1942–52 and 1968–79) and at one time also served as department chair. Stanley Hauerwas reported that another priest described Father Sheedy's administration as "that bit of humanity thrown into the wheels of bureaucracy to bring them to a stop."

As a Christian ethicist, Father Sheedy condemned the use of nuclear weapons, even in the case of defense, in 1957. An advocate for the abolition of the death penalty, Father Sheedy delivered testimony before the Massachusetts legislature to that end in 1964.

In 1991, Father Hesburgh commissioned Jerry McKenna to create a sculpture of Father Sheedy that now stands in the Great Hall of O'Shaughnessy Hall on campus.

Since 1970, Notre Dame's College of Arts and Letters annually honors an outstanding faculty member who excels in research and instruction with the "Sheedy Excellence in Teaching Award."




</doc>
<doc id="41074707" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074707" title="Madhuca kingiana">
Madhuca kingiana

Madhuca kingiana is a plant in the family Sapotaceae. It grows as a tree up to tall, with a trunk diameter of up to . The bark is greyish brown. Inflorescences bear up to six flowers. The tree is named for the botanist George King. Habitat is lowland mixed dipterocarp forest from sea-level to altitude. "M. kingiana" is found in Sumatra, Peninsular Malaysia and Borneo.


</doc>
<doc id="41074727" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074727" title="Hugh Gurling">
Hugh Gurling

Hugh Malcolm Douglas Gurling (6 May 1950 – 2 November 2013) was an English medical geneticist who specialised in the role of genetics and mental health. He led a molecular psychiatry laboratory at University College, London.

Gurling was born in London on 6 May 1950, and brought up in Derbyshire. His father, Kenneth Gurling, was a physician and inaugural dean of the University of Nottingham. His mother, Nonie Sempill, was a nurse.

He attended Sutton Valence School in Maidstone, Kent, before obtaining a medical degree from King's College London in 1973. He subsequently specialised in psychiatry at Guy’s Hospital and then at the Maudsley Hospital.

He began his research career in 1976, working with Professor Robin Murray at the Institute of Psychiatry on the genetics of alcoholism.

Gurling sought genes that would cause schizophrenia, bipolar disorder (manic depression) and alcoholism. In this, he had an approach that was unusual for the time, when social and psychological factors were perceived as being more important than genetics. Part of the reason for this consensus was that the idea that genes could play a significant role in people's behaviour (with the consequent associations with mental illness) conflicted with the idea of free will, and would, if proven, have implications for judicial policy.

Gurling studied statistics at the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine in 1977, before working at Stanford University as a Wellcome training scholar in 1981. In 1987 he moved to UCL where he set up Britain’s first molecular psychiatry laboratory. Here, he held the title of 'Professor of Molecular Psychiatry'.

Collaboration with researchers in Iceland, (where large families and exceptional genealogical records made it possible to identify DNA markers for schizophrenia) led, in 1988, to an article by Gurling in the journal "Nature". The paper suggested that a particular chromosome, chromosome 5, contained a gene which caused schizophrenia.

Later work by his laboratory found genes involved in expressing neurotransmitter receptor proteins, which have been linked with psychosis. He published a paper showing that highly informative markers called microsatellites could be used in gene-mapping studies. He was also involved in work showing that small changes (sometimes to single DNA bases) in DNA dramatically affected the risks of schizophrenia and manic depression.

His last research work, (published in the Journal of the American Medical Association — Psychiatry in April 2013) suggested a realistic prospect of personalised medicine in psychiatry.

Throughout his career, he continued to carry out clinic work as well as research, including a psychiatric intensive care unit, treating patients too severely psychotic to be safely managed on ordinary wards.

Gurling had a serious interest in current affairs from his youth, and 'held strong views on the need for social justice and was deeply committed to the NHS'. He was said to be 'a big, rumbustious, optimistic man with a taste for Hawaiian shirts.' He had a passion for music, and in 1969, after a trip to India with friends, he returned with a sitar and a dilruba, and learned to play both.

He excelled at the sports of squash and rugby, and at one time represented his County in hammer-throwing.

In 1987, he married Meryl Dahlitz, an academic neuropsychiatrist. In 1994 they had their first daughter Holly, and then twins Laurel and Alisdair in 1998.

Gurling died of a heart attack on 2 November 2013.

Although Gurling began his career in the 1970s, one obituary of him has argued that 'it is only [since 2003] that the psychiatric establishment has begun to see the potential of the research that Gurling pioneered.' Techniques used by Gurling's UCL laboratory - which he continued to run until his death - are said to have become the standard approach for identifying disease-causing genes in hundreds of diseases, and is regarded as a 'world leader' in the field of psychiatric genetics, a field which has been cited as 'potentially the greatest source of biological insights and advances in [mental health] treatment'.


</doc>
<doc id="41074752" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074752" title="McIntosh Group">
McIntosh Group

McIntosh Group (formerly Fine Sounds Group) is an American holding company specializing in audio equipment and owns the brands McIntosh Laboratory, Audio Research, Sonus Faber, Wadia Digital, Sumiko and Fine Sounds Asia.

The Fine Sounds Group project took shape in 2007, when the asset management company Quadrivio SGR – main shareholder of the group – acquired the brand Sonus Faber, an Italian company specializing in high-end loudspeakers. In 2009 Mauro Grange joined the group as CEO of Sonus Faber.

The "buy and build" strategy carried on by Quadrivio resulted in the acquisition of Audio Research in 2009, Sumiko in 2010, Wadia in 2011 and McIntosh Laboratories in 2012, which constitute the holdings of Fine Sounds Group. 
Through the acquisition of these brands, Fine Sounds Group became a relevant holding company in the sector of high-end audio, with €50 million sales in 2011.
The holding company took part in an official event as one unique family for the first time in 2013, with the participation in the Munich High End Show.

On 9 May 2014 Mauro Grange and Charlie Randall, president of McIntosh Laboratory, Inc., announced their plans for a management buyout of Fine Sounds Group in partnership with LBO France and Yarpa, including a relocation of the Headquarters from Milan to New York.

On 10 August 2016 Fine Sounds Group was officially renamed McIntosh Group.

In July 2017 McIntosh Group appointed Jeff Poggi to co-Chief Executive Officer and Board member.



</doc>
<doc id="41074804" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074804" title="GURPS Espionage">
GURPS Espionage

GURPS Espionage is a sourcebook for the GURPS RPG.

"GURPS Espionage" was reviewed in "White Wolf" #36.



</doc>
<doc id="41074806" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074806" title="Family Court of New Zealand">
Family Court of New Zealand

The Family Court of New Zealand () is a court that specifically exists to assist New Zealanders with family issues. There are 58 Family Courts throughout New Zealand.

Although the Family Court is technically a division of the District Courts, it retains its own identity.

The Family Court most commonly deals with issues relating to the welfare of children. It also deals with issues relating to births, deaths, marriage, and mental health..

The Family Court deals with applications under the following legislation:





</doc>
<doc id="41074810" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074810" title="Beneath the Gated Sky">
Beneath the Gated Sky

Beneath the Gated Sky is a science-fiction novel by Robert Reed, first published in 1997. It describes a world in which the sky undergoes a transformation that prevents people from seeing the stars, giving them instead a view of the other side of the world, as if the Earth had been turned inside out. The entire universe seems to have been rebuilt by an intelligence so that each body of matter exists in a structure that connects all matter together allowing travel between worlds using "quantum intrusions". The intrusions only allow minds, or as some would maintain, souls to pass through, emerging on the other side as a fully formed member of whatever species exists on the new world.

The novel is a sequel to Beyond the Veil of Stars, and follows that novel's protagonists, Cornell Novak and Porsche Neal, as they deal with their new relationship, the secret activities of the government agency that they worked for, and the possibility that some visitors from other worlds are working to destroy human society so they can take over.

Cornell Novak and Porsche Neal have moved to an isolated property that happens to contain one of the many black glass disks that appeared all over the world shortly before the sky changed. The disks mark the sites of quantum intrusions, or gateways, that have been locked down by travelers from other worlds to prevent humans from opening them. Porsche herself is a traveler, as are her extended family. Cornell was born on Earth, but suspects that his ancestors were travelers.

Their initial purpose is to gather information and prepare to expose their former employer, the Cosmic Event Agency, to the world via the Internet, while having an escape route ready should the CEA attempt to capture them. However Cornell has to come to terms with Porsche's past, and the emotional relationships she formed with beings on other worlds. Porsche herself has a guilty secret. It was because of her rash revelation of her family's origins to her lover that they had to leave their previous home on the planet Jarrtree and come to Earth. The first part of the novel describes Porsche's childhood on Jarrtree and her arrival on Earth. Her extended family is part of "The Few", who have become part of societies across the universe.

On Earth, Porsche and Cornell have been working with a computer expert to create their presentation to the world. Porsche, working with her cousin Trinidad and advanced technology created by the Few, has set up a network of hidden alarms and booby trap devices around the farm. Suddenly they find themselves under attack by the CEA, who seem to be aiming to kidnap them. For some reason their defenses have failed. Porsche escapes with Cornell's father through the portal into a world of intelligent apes who live in a jungle environment. Another portal from there brings them back to Tasmania from where they travel to Australia, only to find that Trinidad is working with the CEA. Their objective was to kidnap Porsche and return her to Jarrtree. Her former lover there, Jey-im, is now in a position to help the CEA kidnap the best minds of Porsche's home city. He has been manipulated over a long period by Trinidad, impersonating Porsche over the data network. Now Porsche must appear in person to complete the deception. The CEA holds her relatives and their children as hostages.

The scheme appears to work and the CEA flee with their victims from the city. They come under fire from the local militia but threaten to kill the abductees unless allowed to escape. Trinidad's father, using resources still hidden on Jarrtree, intervenes and lures the entire CEA convoy into a portal which results in all their hardware being destroyed. They are forced to come to terms with the Few.

It begins to become clear that some travelers are not content to live in the societies they inhabit, but work to disrupt them so they can take over. Jarrtree itself is in turmoil thanks to a new religion. Porsche suspects members of her own extended family of being part of this group that they call "The Others".

Forced to choose sides, Porsche offers a deal to the CEA: her people can provide technology that would allow humans to colonize the Solar System at minimal cost using the gateways. In exchange the government would have to shut down its plans to get technology from other worlds and turn over any members of the Others who have been helping it.

The cost of this deal is the apparent death of Porsche's favorite cousin, Trinidad, who throws himself out of an airborne helicopter. Subsequently Trinidad's mother disappears, as does Porsche's sister-in-law, and many other spouses who married into the Few and were believed to be natives of the worlds they came from. All their children disappear with them. Porsche is left in shock, realizing how extensive the reach of the "Others" was. However Trinidad had cast doubt on who the real villains really might be.

The novel appeared to leave room for a sequel, but apart from a novelette entitled "Apothecary Blue", printed in 1999 in Science Fiction Age, no other related work has been published.



</doc>
<doc id="41074811" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074811" title="Catherine Cloutier">
Catherine Cloutier

Catherine A. Labonte Cloutier (born July 25, 1950) is an American politician and a Republican member of the Delaware Senate since January 9, 2001 representing District 5. Cloutier served in the Delaware House of Representatives from 1999 to 2001, after taking over the seat when her husband, former Lieutenant Governor of Delaware candidate Philip D. Cloutier, died in office in 1998. Senator Cloutier serves as the minority whip in the 150th General Assembly.




</doc>
<doc id="41074812" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074812" title="Gunnarnes">
Gunnarnes

Gunnarnes is a seaside village on the island of Rolvsøya in the municipality of Måsøy in Finnmark, Norway. There is a ferry between Gunnarnes and Havøysund.



</doc>
<doc id="41074820" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074820" title="John Smith (Sheffield cricketer)">
John Smith (Sheffield cricketer)

John Smith (dates of birth and death unknown) was an English first-class cricketer active 1845 who played for Sheffield Cricket Club. His batting style is unknown. He was born in Sheffield.

Smith made a single first-class appearance for Sheffield against Manchester Cricket Club in 1845 at Moss Lane, Manchester. In some accounts, Sheffield are called Yorkshire in this match although Manchester did not call themselves Lancashire. In a match which Sheffield won by an innings and 67 runs, Smith was dismissed by John Sherman for a duck. His brother Paul Smith also played first-class cricket.



</doc>
<doc id="41074832" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074832" title="Ora TV">
Ora TV

Ora TV is a television production studio and on-demand digital television network launched in 2012 by television host Larry King and funded by América Móvil, a business venture of Mexican billionaire Carlos Slim. Ora (which means "now" in Italian) both produces and distributes television shows including Emmy-nominated "Larry King Now", "Politicking with Larry King", "Off the Grid with Jesse Ventura", "Real Girl's Kitchen with Haylie Duff", and "Brown Bag Wine Tasting with William Shatner". Ora has production offices and studios in New York City and Los Angeles.

Ora TV was founded by Larry King, his wife Shawn Southwick-King, and Carlos Slim in 2012 as an outlet to produce a new show for Larry King after leaving CNN. "Larry King Now" was launched as Ora's first show in July 2012 and aired both on Ora TV and Hulu. In 2014, Larry King Now episode "Head Trauma in the NFL" was nominated for a News and Documentary Emmy Award in the Outstanding News Discussion and Analysis category.

In April 2013, Ora TV acquired Stick Figure Studios, an Emmy award-winning documentary and reality series production company based in New York. Stick Figure is the producer of "Catching Hell", a spearfishing docu-drama that aired on The Weather Channel in the summer of 2014, with exclusive digital content on Ora TV.

Ora TV's other content includes Haylie Duff's "Real Girl's Kitchen" food & lifestyle series that aired on both Ora TV and the Cooking Channel, the Laugh Factory video archive, and road trip adventure show "Wayward Nation", which launched in September 2014.

On June 30, 2015, Ora TV severed ties with American real estate tycoon Donald Trump. Arturo Elías Ayub, Slim's son-in-law and chairman of Ora TV, called his remarks about undocumented immigrants racist and an insult.

An Episode of "Politicking" which aired on September 8, 2016 and featured 2016 presidential candidate Donald Trump was the spark of a controversy. Numerous media outlets reported the interview was done by Russian state-owned, 'Kremlin-backed' television. Ora TV released a statement clarifying that the content is licensed to RT America, but produced independently from the network.


</doc>
<doc id="41074833" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074833" title="Cynthia McClintock">
Cynthia McClintock

Cynthia McClintock is a professor at George Washington University and an author. She serves on the Center for International Policy's board of directors. From 1994–1995 she was the president of the Latin American Studies Association. She is an expert on Peruvian relations with the U.S., Andean affairs, the drug trade, and the Tupac Amaru rebel group.

McClintock grew up in New York City, where she graduated from the Chapin School. She received a B.A. from Harvard University and a Ph.D. from Massachusetts Institute of Technology.

Her expertise is in Latin American politics, U.S. policy towards Latin America, and Peru. She was a member of the Council of the American Political Science Association from 1998–2000 and served as Chair of its Comparative Democratization Section. She was a Fellow at the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs from 2003–2005.

She has received fellowships from the U.S. Institute of Peace, Fulbright, Social Science Research Council and the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. She has testified before the Subcommittee on Western Hemisphere Affairs of the U.S. House of Representatives and has appeared on "News Hour with Jim Lehrer", CNN International, CNN Spanish, National Public Radio, and the Diane Rehm Show.



</doc>
<doc id="41074841" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074841" title="The Great Big Book of Horrible Things">
The Great Big Book of Horrible Things

The Great Big Book of Horrible Things: The Definitive Chronicle of History’s 100 Worst Atrocities is a popular history book by Matthew White, an independent scholar and self-described atrocitologist. The book provides a ranking of the hundred worst atrocities of mankind based on the number of deaths.

Matthew White, a self-described atrocitologist and a librarian at the federal courthouse in Richmond, Virginia, wrote the book in 2011. He compiled his list of hundred worst atrocities without any degree or formal training in history or statistics. However, his statistics have been used as source by many authors, including in 377 books and 183 scholarly articles. White previously administered the "Historical Atlas of the 20th Century" on his own website, and became interested in the subject due to constant arguments in cyberspace about who was actually responsible for various atrocities throughout history.

The foreword of the book was written by psychologist Steven Pinker. After the foreword the book chronologically lists the hundred atrocities. Some of these are the Khmer Rouge rule of Cambodia, An Lushan Rebellion, and World War II.

White's methodology for creating the list was gathering all available data on atrocities and attempting to discern consensus estimates for each one's death tolls. His focus is on armed conflict, with famine and disease relating to such conflict counting for the statistics, while natural disasters and economic events do not. White notes that there is no atrocity for which the statistics can be agreed upon worldwide.

One of White's conclusions is that no one system of government is obviously more murderous, and anarchy can be worst of all. He furthermore claims that governments don't kill people, rather people kill people. Another conclusion is that chaos is more deadly than tyranny.

The book was first published in hardcover by W. W. Norton & Company in November 2011. The paperback was published by W. W. Norton in May 2013 under the new title Atrocities: The 100 Deadliest Episodes in Human History. The UK edition (Canongate Books, 20 Oct 2011) is entitled Atrocitology: Humanity's 100 Deadliest Achievements. It has been translated into Italian, Japanese, Portuguese and Spanish.

Steven Pinker credits White with creating "the most comprehensive, disinterested and statistically nuanced estimates available". He does however say that numbers provided by White are "at the high end of the range". He praised the methodological standards of White and the transparency of sources. Charles S. Maier, a professor at Harvard University, says that "these figures are notoriously elusive" and that White "seems to have tried to get the best figures he could". He added that most historians feel ashamed about doing this kind of raw exercise, adding "here’s a guy who hasn’t been afraid to get his hands dirty". Ben Kiernan, director of the Genocide Studies Program at Yale University commented that "averaging guesses alongside more precise counts can be misleading". Randolph Roth, co-director of the Historical Violence Database at Ohio State University, said that it is difficult to make a quantitative analysis of an event while not knowing about the qualitative side of the context. He praised White's effort to look at the big picture, while adding "it’s going to be hard for many historians to read this book and look at that death toll for Genghis Khan, that 40 million, and not have a sinking feeling".

Rudolph Rummel, professor emeritus of political science at the University of Hawaii, disagrees with White on the extent of democide present in the 20th century. He calls White's statistics "not reliable", and claims that Stalin killed 61 million people, rather than the 20 million mentioned in the book by White. He insisted that the difference in numbers is "a profound statement on the nature of Communism".

Jennifer Schuessler of "The New York Times" praised the "stylishly lurid graphics and goofy asides". James Hannaham of "The Village Voice" stated that the book might start controversy. He picked the example of slavery, saying that White claimed it was nearly eradicated, which he argues is not true if human trafficking is accounted for. He does compliment the style of writing: "even reading this world bummer with a grain of salt, you can't resist White's witty prose or put the damned thing down". Bill Blakemore of "ABC News" praised the elegant use of humor in the book, furthermore calling it a "fascinating, new, big and easy-to-read reference book". He called the style of writing "crystal clear" and said that "White’s list of the 100 Deadliest Atrocities is full of surprises". Randy Dotinga of "The Christian Science Monitor" said of the book that "despite being a kind of encyclopedia of evil, it actually manages to be a fascinating read thanks to White's keen grasp of history and his wry take on the villains of the past".



</doc>
<doc id="41074867" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074867" title="1935 Jérémie hurricane">
1935 Jérémie hurricane

The 1935 Jérémie hurricane was a highly destructive and catastrophic tropical cyclone that impacted the Greater Antilles and Honduras in October 1935, killing well over 2,000 people. Developing on October 18 over the southwestern Caribbean Sea, the storm proceeded to strike eastern Jamaica and southeastern Cuba while overwhelming southwestern Haiti in a deluge of rain. The hurricane—a Category 1 at its peak—completed an unusual reversal of its path on October 23, heading southwestward toward Central America. Weakened by its interaction with Cuba, the storm soon regained strength and made its final landfall near Cabo Gracias a Dios in Honduras on October 25. The cyclone weakened upon moving inland and dissipated two days later.

Flooding and landslides in Jamaica took their toll on property, agricultural interests, and infrastructure; fruit growers on the island sustained about $2.5 million (1935 USD) in losses. Just off the coast, an unidentified vessel went down with her entire crew in the hostile conditions. Strong winds buffeted coastal sections of Cuba, notably in and around Santiago de Cuba. There, the hurricane demolished 100 homes and filled streets with debris. Only four people died in the country, thanks to the extensive pre-storm preparations. The storm did the most damage along the Tiburon Peninsula of southwestern Haiti, where catastrophic river flooding took the lives of up to 2,000 individuals, razed hundreds of native houses, and destroyed crops and livestock. The heaviest destruction took place around the towns of Jacmel and Jérémie; one early report estimated that 1,500 had been killed at the latter. Entire swaths of countryside were isolated for days, delaying both reconnaissance and relief efforts.

The hurricane later created devastating floods in Central America, chiefly in Honduras. Reported at the time to be the worst flood in the nation's history, the disaster decimated banana plantations and population centers after rivers flowed up to above normal. Torrents of floodwaters trapped hundreds of citizens in trees, on rooftops, and on remote high ground, requiring emergency rescue. The storm left thousands homeless and around 150 dead in the country, while monetary losses totaled $12 million. Flooding and strong winds reached into northeastern Nicaragua, though damage was much less widespread than in neighboring Honduras.

The hurricane originated over the southwestern Caribbean Sea, where, on October 17, a broad and immature low pressure system was noted. The hurricane forecast center in Jacksonville, Florida issued its first advisory on the storm late on October 20, following ship reports of winds approaching and exceeding gale-force. Contemporary reanalyses of the storm have determined that it organized into a tropical depression on October 18, then drifted toward the east, turning north-northeastward as it strengthened into a tropical storm early the next day. Due to low environmental air pressures and the large size of the cyclone, intensification was gradual as the storm approached Jamaica, eventually making landfall on the eastern side of the island, just west of the Morant Point Lighthouse, at 13:00 UTC on October 21. The system came ashore with a central pressure of , suggesting maximum winds of 60 mph (100 km/h). After emerging into the waters between Jamaica and Cuba, the storm slowed in forward speed, continued to intensify, and curved northwestward toward southeastern Cuba. The storm attained the equivalent of Category 1 hurricane status on the current-day Saffir–Simpson hurricane wind scale early on October 22, while meandering just off the coast of Cuba.

At around 18:00 UTC on October 22, the hurricane made landfall near Santiago de Cuba at its initial peak intensity, with winds of 85 mph (140 km/h). It started weakening early the next day after encountering the Sierra Maestra mountain range and moving southwestward, away from the coast. Steered by persistent high-pressure ridging over the eastern United States and western Atlantic, the cyclone would maintain this highly unusual path for the remainder of its duration in open waters. It brushed Cuba's Cape Cruz and deteriorated to a tropical storm before passing relatively close to the western tip of Jamaica. On the morning of October 24, the barometer aboard a ship in the storm's eye fell to , its lowest recorded pressure. The ship measured winds outside of the lull only up to , but the storm was reintensifying, and once again achieved hurricane strength later in the day. It matched its previous peak intensity at 12:00 UTC on October 25 as it approached Cabo Gracias a Dios on the border of Honduras and Nicaragua. Shortly thereafter, the hurricane crossed the Honduran coast for its final landfall. The mountainous terrain of Central America worked to diminish the storm, which curved westward and steadily lost force, though observation of its decay was minimal. The cyclone likely dissipated on October 27 over Guatemala.

The hurricane affected Jamaica, Haiti, Cuba, Honduras, and North Nicaragua along its unusual path, killing an estimated 2,150 people.

Parts of eastern Jamaica began to experience strong northeasterly winds early on October 20, and the parishes of Saint Thomas, Portland, and Saint Mary ultimately bore the brunt of the storm. Heavy rainfall swelled rivers and triggered landslides; the ensuing floods destroyed bridges, inundated many homes, and necessitated the rescue of trapped individuals. With telegraph communications cut to the hardest-hit areas and roads left impassable, the degree of destruction was initially uncertain, though it was described as "extensive". The storm took a heavy toll on agriculture (already compromised from the effects of another hurricane less than a month earlier), with banana plantations in particular sustaining heavy damage. Losses to fruit crops in the nation totaled an estimated $2,500,000.

The storm reportedly killed three people on the island. An unidentified schooner capsized off Port Antonio with all hands lost, in spite of efforts to rescue the imperiled crew. One modern source recounts that the crew numbered 31, but this figure was not widely reported. The , underway with President of the United States Franklin D. Roosevelt, averted its course after encountering adverse conditions.

In advance of the hurricane's landfall in Cuba, businesses were closed. Railways worked to secure non-essential trains, and residents of vulnerable coastal towns, including Caimanera, fled their homes in search of safer ground. The hurricane subjected eastern parts of the island to intense gales, measured at over at Santiago de Cuba before the anemometer failed. The northern coast of the island around Nipe Bay also endured strong winds as high as . Winds of were recorded at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Base, though the effects there were generally light. Closer to the hurricane's center, in Santiago de Cuba, about 100 homes sustained complete structural failures. The prolonged nature of the storm hampered search and rescue efforts amid the rubble. Winds strew debris around the city, blocking its streets. A hospital and a power plant both suffered roof failure. Electricity in Santiago de Cuba was preemptively turned off as conditions worsened, contributing to regional power outages. 
Significant flooding occurred after the Cauto River overflowed it banks, making driving impossible. The storm severed communications between towns in eastern Cuba after bringing down telephone and telegraph wires. Apart from seven structures ruined in the Guantánamo area, there was less destruction in many locations than initially feared. There were reports of three fatalities in Caimanera, and one person died in Santiago de Cuba. At least 29 individuals were treated for storm-related injuries. Damage assessments in the immediate aftermath of the storm placed monetary damages in Cuba at $500,000. In the aftermath, a public curfew was issued for Santiago de Cuba, forcing residents to remain indoors after 8 pm. To prevent looting, troops patrolled streets and vulnerable locations, such as banks. Supplies of bread and milk ran short following the hurricane.

The greatest disaster occurred in southern Haiti, where as many as 2,000 people died, possibly more. The towns of Jacmel and Jérémie—both on the Tiburon Peninsula—were devastated by catastrophic freshwater flooding after days of torrential rains. The entire peninsula, already remote in its own right, was isolated for a time, ensuring only scant detail of the disaster reached the outside world. Information was initially relayed to the capital city of Port-au-Prince by a single aircraft.

The hurricane crippled infrastructure, blocking roads throughout the area and destroying a hydroelectricity plant in Jacmel. The town was left without power and drinking water. In Jérémie, the flooding was so severe as to sweep away a large metal bridge. Hundreds of poorly constructed native houses were destroyed on the Tiburon Peninsula, leaving thousands of survivors without homes. Property damage in Haiti amounted to over $1 million. Meanwhile, thousands of livestock were killed and crops were completely destroyed, prompting fears of impending famine.

Several days after the storm, the bodies of drowning victims had been recovered by the hundreds, and it was suspected many of the deceased had been washed into the sea. One preliminary estimate placed the number of dead in the Jérémie area alone at 1,500, suggesting the worst of the tragedy occurred there. Indeed, some modern sources have unofficially referred to the storm as "Hurricane Jérémie". The Haitian government worked to bring emergency supplies and relief workers, at least partially by way of ship, to the flood-stricken region. As little was known about the extent of losses, officials rushed to restore communications with the disaster area.

After clearing the Greater Antilles, the hurricane ravaged parts of Honduras. Banana plantations suffered extensively, causing the United Fruit Company about $6 million in losses. As in Haiti, the hardest hit areas of Honduras were cut off from the nation's capital of Tegucigalpa. Severe river flooding wrought widespread destruction, especially around La Ceiba and throughout the Cortés Department. Many towns were inundated by up to of water. According to one source, the Ulúa River "officially" rose some from its normal height near Chamelecón, where the flood left 800 families homeless. Many hundreds of individuals were stranded by raging flood waters in the Cortés region, clutching to trees and rooftops as they awaited uncertain rescue. Even after rescue boats brought many residents of Chamelecón to safety, a third of the population remain trapped.

The rampant Cangrejal River reportedly obliterated an entire suburban community further east, near La Ceiba, while the Aguán River burst its banks at Trujillo and killed numerous plantation workers. By October 29, the bodies of 70 flood victims had been recovered at Corocito in Colón. Torrential rains extended into Tegucigalpa, causing urban flooding. Just to the northeast, in San Juancito, a large landslide took the lives of at least three people. Overall, the hurricane inflicted about $12 million in damage across Honduras (including the agricultural impacts), resulted in about 150 deaths, and destroyed the homes of thousands of residents. The floods were considered to be among the worst in the country's history. Almost immediately after the passage of the storm, a wide area of Honduras experienced strong earthquake activity.

Damaging, but less expansive, floods also occurred in parts of extreme northeastern Nicaragua around the Mosquito Coast. The Coco River, which constitutes a large portion of the Honduras–Nicaragua border, swelled as observed about upstream of its mouth. Banana farms were heavily damaged around Cabo Gracias a Dios, occupied by both nations, and according to early reports in that area, all but a handful of dwellings were destroyed. In spite of the flooding and hurricane-force winds, timely warnings prevented fatalities locally.



</doc>
<doc id="41074883" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074883" title="Digenis Oroklinis">
Digenis Oroklinis

"Athletic Club Digenis Oroklinis" () is a Cypriot football club which is based in the village of Oroklini in Larnaca district. The club was founded in 1952. In the 2014–2015 season the team competed in the Cypriot Second Division for the first time in its history. The colors are white and blue.

Digenis was founded in 1952 under the name Athletic Club Omonia Oroklinis. In 1983 the general meeting of the association decided to rename to Digenis. The club's emblem contains the date 1983 when the name changed.

The club has many appearances in the Third and Fourth Division.

"For recent transfers, see List of Cypriot football transfers summer 2018."

The following table shows the progress of the team in time (for those seasons found data).





</doc>
<doc id="41074922" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074922" title="Schima wallichii">
Schima wallichii

Schima wallichii is an evergreen tree belonging to the tea family, Theaceae. It is found in northern Indian, Bangladesh, Nepal, Bhutan, southwestern China (Tibet, Yunnan, Guizhou, and Guangxi), Myanmar, Thailand, Laos, and Vietnam. It grows tall.


</doc>
<doc id="41074925" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074925" title="Prosperous Suzhou">
Prosperous Suzhou

Prosperous Suzhou (), originally entitled Burgeoning Life in a Resplendent Age (), is an 18th-century scroll painting (handscroll) created in 1759 by the Chinese court painter Xu Yang. Depicting the bustling urban life of Suzhou, it combines Western perspective with traditional Chinese style.

The Qianlong Emperor commissioned "Prosperous Suzhou" after he returned from an inspection trip to the south in 1751. It took several years for Xu Yang, a native of Suzhou, to complete. "Prosperous Suzhou" was renamed from "Burgeoning Life in a Resplendent Age" in the 1950s.

"Prosperous Suzhou" is a handscroll, a long narrow scroll for displaying a series of scenes. It is twelve meters in length. It is intended to be viewed starting from the right end, by laying it flat on a table and unrolling it. One admires it section for section during the unrolling as if traveling through a landscape, depicting a continuous journey.

European art and its techniques like linear perspective became increasingly influential in China the 18th and 19th centuries. Skillfully composed, "Prosperous Suzhou" combines Western linear perspective with traditional Chinese compositional devices. The scroll is invaluable from both a historical and an artistic point of view, depicting in intricate detail the mid-18th century topography and customs of Suzhou, allowing modern viewers to visit a Chinese city of 250 years ago.

In his inscription at the end of the scroll, Xu Yang wrote that he painted it in order to depict a peaceful and prosperous reign, and to pay homage to the reign of the Qianlong Emperor. In addition, his inscription describes the scroll as a journey from Mount Lingyan to the city walls of Suzhou, through the city, and ending at Tiger Hill.

The scroll vividly illustrates the visual appearance of the terrain, urban landscapes, and everyday life in an area covering several dozen miles. The middle of the scroll depicts an idealised view of all the activities of the bustling urban center of Suzhou. Viewers can see numerous merchants, traders, barges and passenger boats, as well as dense rows of shops and vendors. More than 4,800 human figures, 2,000 architectural structures, and 400 boats are present.

"Prosperous Suzhou" along with fourteen other paintings (all on the subject of the prosperous cities of the Ming dynasty and Qing dynasty) from the Liaoning Provincial Museum were exhibited at the Hong Kong Museum of Art from 25 September 2009 to 22 November 2009 to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.

The Victoria and Albert Museum in London mounted an exhibition entitled "Masterpieces of Chinese Painting" that included "Prosperous Suzhou" from 26 October 2013 to 19 January 2014. The exhibition was organized to display the finest examples of Chinese painting from the beginning of the 8th to the end of the 19th century.

In 2016, a booklet was published entitled "Prosperous Suzhou" which displays a painted copy of Xu Yang's original. The booklet includes an explanation in English of what is seen in each half-metre. 




</doc>
<doc id="41074929" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074929" title="Xu Yang (Qing dynasty)">
Xu Yang (Qing dynasty)

Xu Yang (; 1712–after 1777) was a court painter to the Qianlong Emperor of the Qing dynasty. A native of Suzhou, he was active ca. 1750–1776.

He painted several handscrolls of note, including "The Qianlong Emperor's Southern Inspection Tour" and "Prosperous Suzhou".



</doc>
<doc id="41074930" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074930" title="Josete (footballer, born 1988)">
Josete (footballer, born 1988)

José Antonio Malagón Rubio (born 28 May 1988), known as Josete, is a Spanish footballer who plays as a defender.

Born in Elche, Province of Alicante, Josete graduated from Elche CF's youth system, making his senior debuts with the reserves in the 2007–08 season, in Tercera División. On 19 June 2010, he appeared in his first professional game with the Valencians' first team, featuring the last eight minutes in a 4–1 home win over Real Sociedad for the Segunda División championship.

In the following years, Josete competed in Segunda División B, representing Deportivo Alavés, Zamora CF and Cádiz CF. On 22 January 2016, he returned to the second level after agreeing to an 18-month deal with Real Oviedo.

On 12 July 2016, Josete rejoined Elche. The following 29 June, after suffering relegation, he signed a two-year contract with fellow division two club CD Lugo.



</doc>
<doc id="41074996" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074996" title="Julia C. Collins">
Julia C. Collins

Julia C. Collins (c. 1842 – November 25, 1865), was an African American schoolteacher in Williamsport, Pennsylvania, who in 1864 and 1865 contributed essays and other writings to "The Christian Recorder", a publication of the African Methodist Episcopal Church. Starting in January 1865, her novel, "The Curse of Caste, or the Slave Bride" was serialized in the pages of the "Christian Recorder." The novel remains unfinished due to the untimely death of its author from consumption. In 2006, William L. Andrews of University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and Mitch Kachun of Western Michigan University collected Collins' writings and her unfinished novel and published them, with commentary and notes, through Oxford University Press.

Little is known about Julia Collins' life. Scholars believe she was born a free woman in the North, though her birth name and birthdate are unknown. Only one African American woman named "Julia" appears in the 1860 Williamsport, Pennsylvania census, a seventeen year old Julia Green who was living with the family of Enoch Gilchrist, a black abolitionist and Underground Railroad conductor. It's plausible that the two Julias are the same person, but cannot be verified. A sign of an educated Northerner, Collins was well-read as she referenced Alexander Pope, William Shakespeare, Alfred, Lord Tennyson, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, and classical antiquity in her essays.

What is certainly known about Collins comes directly from references to her in the "Christian Recorder". In the April 16, 1864 issue of the "Recorder", Enoch Gilchrist announced that Julia Collins was appointed as schoolteacher for the African American children in Williamsport, Pennsylvania. There was no school building open to African American children at that time. The school committee authorized a teacher's salary, but the teacher had to provide the materials and space. The school was likely located in the African American section near the Susquehanna River and the city's African Methodist Episcopal Church. It is not known where Collins lived before April 1864.

More is known about Collins’ husband, Stephen Carlisle Collins. Stephen was born a free man in Pennsylvania and lived in Williamsport. During the Civil War, he was an officer's servant before enlisting in the 6th United States Colored Infantry Regiment. For a period of time after the war, he operated a barber shop in Williamsport and served as commander of the Fribley Post of the Grand Army of the Republic, a veterans’ organization for Civil War soldiers. Barbering and school teaching were higher-status occupations for African Americans in the 19th-century, which meant the Collinses would have been respected and connected in the Williamsport community.

Julia Collins died on November 25, 1865. She only became a member of the African Methodist Episcopal Church on her deathbed. As reported in "The Christian Recorder", she left "motherless children," which leads to speculations that she was in her twenties when she died. These children have been identified as Sarah and Annie Collins. Since Stephen was previously married, the eldest daughter Sarah, born around 1858, was likely not Julia Collins’ natural daughter. Born around 1862, Annie was raised by her grandparents after her mother's death. Annie worked as a domestic, married lumberer John L. Caution in 1884, and died suddenly in 1889.

The dramatic title Collins gave her novel, "The Curse of Caste", or "The Slave Bride", is in keeping with the drama of the story she tells. Individual chapters of "The Curse of Caste" were published in the weekly "Christian Recorder" over a period of eight months in 1865. The story focuses on racial identity, interracial marriage, and the injustices of American slavery and racism. The story abruptly ends just as the plot reaches the climax and resolution, as Collins died of tuberculosis in November, leaving the novel unfinished. In 2006, Oxford University Press published the novel, including an introduction and two alternative endings written by the editors Mitch Kachun and William Andrews.

In addition to the novel, "The Curse of Caste", Collins published six essays in the "Christian Recorder" over the course of ten months from April 19, 1864 to January 20, 1865. The essays are titled, "Mental Improvement," "School Teaching," "Intelligent Women," "A Letter from Oswego: Originality of Ideas," "Life is Earnest," and "Memory and Imagination." The first four essays are datelined Williamsport, Pennsylvania, while the fourth and fifth are datelined Oswego and Owego, New York. The essays convey a message of racial uplift and empowerment to the African American community.

Mitch Kachun, associate professor of history at Western Michigan University "rediscovered" "The Curse of Caste" while searching through the microfilm collection of the "Christian Recorder". Along with colleague William L. Andrews, Katchun argues that the serialized novel is the first novel written by an African American woman. The pair argue that previous novels written by African American women, such as Our Nig (1859) by Harriet E. Wilson and Harriet Ann Jacobs’s Incidents in the Life of a Slave Girl (1861), are basically autobiographical. During a presentation at Saginaw Valley State University, Kachun remarked how it's unusual that Collins’ characters are allowed to be married and (briefly) happy in a tumultuous America. Kachun speculated that "[Collins] is exploring what could be a happy ending, an empowering ending, in which marriage and civility are things that African American women can aspire to."

A few scholars argue that Kachun's and Andrews’ statements are inaccurate and presumptuous. Harvard scholar, Henry Louis Gates Jr., counters that many first novels are autobiographical fiction, and that Our Nig by Harriet E. Wilson (which he brought to light in 1982) is the first novel by an African American woman. Gates also retorts that the book is not "rediscovered" as he published it in microfiche form in 1989 as part of "The Black Periodical Fiction Project." At Gates’ request, Andrews and Kachun added a footnote in the book acknowledging this. Sven Birkerts, a New York Times book reviewer, argues that the "sketchily developed romance" novel is simply not "worthy of the canonically foundational ‘first novel by an African-American woman slot.’" He believes arguing the importance of this unfinished and editorially presumptuous novel takes away from the achievement of vital African American literary works."

No matter the stances on the classification of "The Curse of Caste", scholars believe the novel provides significant views on racial identity, interracial romance, hidden African ancestry, and gender ideologies. The story illuminates how racial prejudice persisted across generations and has the power to deprive people of trust social and emotional freedom. Veta Smith Tucker of the African American Review states that the lack of knowledge about Collins gives scholars great opportunity for discovery and calls the piecing together of facts "literary archeology." Collins used the vehicle of the Christian Recorder to share her voice with a broad audience, and Tucker hopes Collins’ messages of self-improvement, racial uplift, and gender ideologies resonate with people today.

In June 2010, a Pennsylvania State Historical Marker was installed on Williamsport’s River Walk, near the presumed site of Collins’ home and school, to recognize the importance of her life and work.


</doc>
<doc id="41075001" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075001" title="A Formula of Agreement">
A Formula of Agreement

A Formula of Agreement is an ecclesiastical agreement between the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), Reformed Church in America, the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and the United Church of Christ, establishing full communion with each other.

Beginning in 1962, under the sponsorship of the Lutheran World Federation and the Reformed World Alliance, representatives from the Lutheran Church in America, the American Lutheran Church, the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., the Presbyterian Church in the U.S., the Reformed Church in America and the United Church of Christ met to discuss their differences and agreements regarding the doctrine of the Lord’s Supper. In 1966, the book "Marburg Revisited", the title referring to the Marburg Colloquy of 1529, was published, claiming that “As a result of our studies and discussions we see no insuperable obstacles to pulpit and altar fellowship and, therefore, we recommend to our parent bodies that they encourage their constituent churches to enter into discussions looking forward to intercommunion and the fuller recognition of one another's ministries." While a second round of dialogues between 1972 and 1974, made little progress, a third round (1981-1983) produced joint statements on the Lord’s Supper, justification and ministry, published in "A Call To Action" in 1984. Two years later, representatives reached the conclusion that the Reformed and Lutheran denominations recognize each other as churches that preach the Gospel and administer the sacraments in accordance to Christ’s command, recommendations which were adopted by the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.) (which has come about due to a merger between the United Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A. and the Presbyterian Church in the U.S. in 1983) and the Reformed Church in America in 1986, and would be adopted by the United Church of Christ in 1989. For their parts, while the Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches and the American Lutheran Church also adopted the resolutions in 1986, although the Lutheran Church in America was more reluctant to adopt the resolutions, recommending further dialogues.

In 1988, the Association of Evangelical Lutheran Churches, the American Lutheran Church and the Lutheran Church in America merged to form the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America and at their constituting meeting, it was voted to continue discussions with the PCUSA, RCA and United Church of Christ, forming the Lutheran-Reformed Committee for Theological Conversations in order to discuss doctrinal condemnations in the Lutheran “Formula of Concord” and issues relating to Christology, the Lord’s Supper and predestination. The committee released their report “A Common Calling: The Witness of our Reformation Churches in North America Today” in 1992, which stated that there were no “church dividing differences” and unaminmously recommended “That the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the Presbyterian Church (U.S.A.), the Reformed Church in America (RCA), and the United Church of Christ (UCC) declare that they are in full communion with one another. In the specific terms of full communion as they are developed in our study, this recommendation also requires (1) that they recognize each other as churches in which the Gospel is rightly preached and the sacraments rightly administered according to the Word of God; (2) that they withdraw any historic condemnation by one side or the other as inappropriate for the faith and life of our churches today; (3) that they continue to recognize each others' Baptism and authorize and encourage the sharing of the Lord's Supper among their members; (4) that they recognize each others' various ministries and make provision for the orderly exchange of ordained ministers of Word and Sacrament; (5) that they establish appropriate channels of consultation and decision-making within the existing structures of the churches; (6) that they commit themselves to an ongoing process of theological dialogue in order to clarify further the common understanding of the faith and foster its common expression in evangelism, witness, and service; (7) that they pledge themselves to living together under the Gospel in such a way that the principle of mutual affirmation and admonition becomes the basis of a trusting relationship in which respect and love for the other will have a chance to grow.” 

These recommendations led to the production of several documents intended for study in the churches: "A Common Discovery: Learning about the Churches of the Reformation in North America Today"; "Lutheran-Reformed Theological Reflections on Full Communion"; and "Glimpses: What Full Communion May Mean to You". Eventually, after some reluctance from those in the RCA about entering into full communion with the UCC due to issues regarding homosexuality, in 1997, A Formula of Agreement was adopted by the denominations.

The formulas affirm that the denominations are in full communion with each other. Full communion is defined as that the denominations

Noting overall theological disagreements in the past in their confessional documents, the formulas state that “as a consequence of doctrinal agreement, it is stated that the ‘condemnations expressed in the confessional documents no longer apply to the contemporary doctrinal position of the assenting churches’ " ("Leuenberg Agreement", IV.32.b).

Theologically, the biggest issue has been disagreements between the Lutherans and the Reformed stem from disagreements over the sacrament of the Lord’s Supper, with the Lutherans arguing that Christ is physically present in the elements, whereas the Reformed have argued that Christ is spiritually present. The formulas note that “the theological conversations acknowledged that it has not been possible to reconcile the confessional formulations from the sixteenth century with a ‘common language. . .which could do justice to all the insights, convictions, and concerns of our ancestors in the faith’ ("A Common Calling", p. 49). However, the theological conversations recognized these enduring differences as acceptable diversities with regard to the Lord's Supper.” Citing the Leuenberg Agreement of 1973 made between several Lutheran and Reformed churches in Europe, it notes that:
When we celebrate the Lord's Supper we proclaim the death of Christ through which God has reconciled the world with himself. We proclaim the presence of the risen Lord in our midst. Rejoicing that the Lord has come to us, we await his future coming in glory (Leuenberg Agreement, II.2.16)” 
In regards to historical disagreements over double vs. single predestination, the formulas state that Reformed and the Lutherans can agree that salvation by grace alone through faith alone and that “Although Lutherans and Reformed have different emphases in the way they live out their belief in the sovereignty of God's love, they agree that ‘God's unconditional will to save must be preached against all cultural optimism or pessimism’ (A Common Calling, p. 54). It is noted that "‘a common language that transcends the polemics of the past and witnesses to the common predestination faith of Lutheran and Reformed Churches has emerged already in theological writings and official or unofficial statements in our churches’ (A Common Calling, page 55)”.

The "Formula of Agreement "allows for “an orderly exchange of ministers of word and sacrament” between the PCUSA, ELCA, UCC or RCA. A minister wishing to transfer to another denomination must be educated in their own tradition before transferring to a church in another tradition and it must be done at the invitation of the receiving church and with the consent of the sending church Each denomination has established procedures for allowing ministers from other denominations to serve in their denomination, and the agreement guarantees that each denomination’s polity will be respected.

The fellowship between the denominations has remained controversial. The Lutheran Church–Missouri Synod has condemned the agreement, arguing that it jettisons the Lutheran confessional standards as laid out in the "Book of Concord", as the Lutheran and the Reformed views of the supper are irreconcilable.

One of the other larger issues has to do with diverging stances on human sexuality, as the Reformed Church in America officially does not affirm homosexuality. Even as the" Formula of Agreement was "being drafted, some in the Reformed Church in America objected to the agreement with the United Church of Christ because of their more progressive stance on homosexuality. The ELCA's subsequent decision in 2009 to allow homosexuals to serve as clergy prompted some conservatives in the RCA to call for the RCA's withdrawal from the Formula of Agreement. While the RCA would not sever the ties with the ELCA, the 2010 General Synod of the RCA expressed their concern by the move of the Lutherans, two denominations eventually agreed to further dialogue about the issue. In 2012, an RCA classis in Michigan unsuccessfully made an overture to the General Synod to have the RCA withdraw from the Formula of Agreement. 2013 saw the adoption of a paper by "Formula "Churches on Scripture and moral discernment, a paper in which the Disciples of Christ, the Moravian Church in North America and the Christian Reformed Church in North America took an advisory role in drafting.


</doc>
<doc id="41075007" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075007" title="Some Love Lost">
Some Love Lost

Some Love Lost is the first EP by American rapper Joe Budden. The EP was released on November 4, 2014, by Mood Muzik Entertainment and E1 Music.

"Some Love Lost" received generally positive reviews from music critics. Carl Lamarre of "XXL" said, "While "Some Love Lost" serves as merely an appetizer to his upcoming album "All Love Lost", Joe Budden’s anguish and candor on this project will do more than enough to hold over his ravenous fan base." Andre Grant of HipHopDX stated, "As a meal before the main course, "Some Love Lost", is a lonely one. But Joe’s change in style (to the autobiographical slaughter it is now) is interesting, and he claims he’s got his best work on deck. As for this one, it is an ambitious dumping of his tragedies on paper. But it also leaves Joe and this project rolling a rock up hill that never quite gets there."

The album debuted at number 55 on the "Billboard" 200, with sales of 7,695 copies in the United States.


</doc>
<doc id="41075018" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075018" title="Carole Lombard filmography">
Carole Lombard filmography

Carole Lombard (1908–1942) was an American cinema actress who appeared in 56 feature films and 18 short films in a career spanning 21 years before her death in an airplane crash at the age of 33. 



</doc>
<doc id="41075027" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075027" title="Youngstown Puddlers">
Youngstown Puddlers

The Youngstown Puddlers was a Minor League Baseball team based in Youngstown, Ohio, United States. The team was part of the Interstate League. The team existed in the late 19th century. Eventually the team would also be named the Little Giants.

The team's "puddler" name was derived from a type of iron worker in iron factories and foundries, and Youngstown was especially well known for its iron and steel manufacturing.


</doc>
<doc id="41075029" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075029" title="Narceus">
Narceus

Narceus is a genus of large cylindrical millipedes of the family Spirobolidae native to eastern North America. The genus comprises three or four species, two of which are endemic to Florida, and the remainder forming a species complex. The species of "Narceus" include some of the largest and most recognizable millipedes in eastern North America.

"Narceus" individuals range from long, with 45 to 59 segments as adults. Their body color is various shades of brown with reddish to yellow stripes on each segment.


The species "N. americanus" and "N. annularis" are widely distributed in North America, and may represent an intergradation of forms rather than two distinct species, a group known as the ""N. americanus/annularis" complex".


</doc>
<doc id="41075032" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075032" title="Mark Nelson (scientist)">
Mark Nelson (scientist)

Mark Nelson (born 1947) is an American ecologist and author based in Santa Fe, New Mexico. His research focuses on closed ecological system research, ecological engineering, restoration of damaged ecosystems, and wastewater recycling. The founding director of the Institute of Ecotechnics in 1973, Nelson was one of the eight original crew members of Biosphere 2 in 1991 and served as the Director of Earth and Space Applications for the project until 1994.

Nelson was born and raised in Brooklyn, New York. He majored in philosophy and pre-med at Dartmouth College and received his BA summa cum laude in 1968. After a stint in New York City working as a taxi driver, he arrived at the Synergia Ranch in New Mexico. The ranch, named for Buckminster Fuller's concept of synergy, was founded by John Allen and owned by Allen's wife Marie Harding. Its ranch hands also made furniture and pottery, studied ecology, and gave theatrical performances, occasionally touring under the name Theater of All Possibilities. It was at the ranch that the Institute of Ecotechnics was founded in 1973 with Nelson as its director.
The Institute of Ecotechnics, which described itself as an ecological think tank was financed by Ed Bass, who also funded the Biosphere 2 project. In 1986, Nelson and John Allen had co-authored "Space Biospheres", which outlined the plans for the biosphere and its scientific rationale. Nelson was one of the original eight crew members who remained in the closed environment of the Biosphere from 1991 until 1993 and was responsible for the animal fodder systems, managing the wilderness sections, and coordinating the transfer of data from Biosphere.

After the initial Biosphere 2 experiment ended in 1993, Nelson and his fellow crew member Abigail Alling published "Life Under Glass: The Inside Story of Biosphere". Nelson then began graduate studies at the University of Arizona's School of Renewable Natural Resources, receiving his MSc in 1995. In the interim, disputes over the management of the next phase of the Biosphere project in 1994 had led to its financial backer Ed Bass placing the project into temporary receivership and relieving the project's chief management of their duties, including Nelson who was the Director of Earth and Space Applications. Nelson went on to study environmental engineering science under Howard T. Odum at the University of Florida's Center for Wetlands, and received his PhD in 1998 with a dissertation entitled "Limestone wetland mesocosm for recycling saline wastewater in Coastal Yucatan, Mexico".

Nelson continues to publish papers on ecosystem research and engineering in journals such as "Advances in Space Research" and "Life Sciences in Space Research" and remains Chairman of the Institute of Ecotechnics. He resumed the post in 1982 after a seven-year period when it was run by Randall Gibson. Over the years, his work at the Institute has included the founding in 1978 of the eco-station and desert reclamation project Birdwood Downs located at Meda Station in Western Australia and in 1983 of Las Casas de la Selva, a rainforest enrichment and sustainable forestry project in Puerto Rico. He is also the founder and principal of Wastewater Gardens International, a company which develops and promotes artificial wetlands.

Nelson's publications include:



</doc>
<doc id="41075055" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41075055" title="Ron Resch">
Ron Resch

Ron Resch (Ronald Dale Resch) was an artist, computer scientist, and applied geometrist, known for his work involving folding paper, Origami Tessellations and 3D polyhedrons. 
Resch studied art at the University of Iowa receiving his Master of Fine Arts, and went on to become a professor of Computer Science at the University of Utah.

He famously designed the Vegreville egg, the first physical structure designed entirely with computer-aided geometric modelling software.



</doc>
