<doc id="41072520" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072520" title="Sniper Elite III">
Sniper Elite III

Sniper Elite III is a third-person tactical shooter stealth video game developed and published by Rebellion Developments. The game is a prequel to its 2012 predecessor "Sniper Elite V2", and is the third installment in the "Sniper Elite" series.

"Sniper Elite III" is set around three years prior to the events of "V2", following the exploits of Office of Strategic Services officer Karl Fairburne as he participates in the North African conflict during World War II, in which he learns of a secret wonder weapon programmed by the Nazi forces.

The game retains and builds on the mechanics of "Sniper Elite V2". Players go through large battlefield maps based on the North African conflict.

The sniper rifle is the player's primary weapon, though additional weapons, including submachine guns and pistols, silenced or not depending on the situation, are available. In addition to hand grenades, the player can deploy tripwire booby traps, land mines and dynamite. Binoculars can be used to tag enemies, displaying their position and movements. The player-character must hold their breath to properly line up the shot. A red icon appears in the scope, marking the projected point of impact. There are weapon parts spread out all over the game, found when looting dead enemies, allowing players to customize their weapons in the predeployment menu; the menu also allows equipment loadouts.

Stealth mechanics have been reworked. An eye icon squints or opens to denote the player's level of detection by the enemy. Enemy soldiers will also have a circle meter over their heads to indicate alert status. Players are also forced to relocate periodically to prevent detection with a white ghost image to mark their last known position and the enemy will search a wider area. As in the previous game, loud sounds may be used to mask sniper shots.

A points system is instituted for actions such as stealth close-combat or sniper kills, with the points accumulating towards promotion to higher ranks. Players can go around the map to collect special reward items such as collectors' cards and unlock sniper nests. Journal pages also provide further backstory into the events of the game.

"V2"s X-Ray kill cam system is retained as well. Where the previous game only shows the body's internal structure at point of impact, the new game expands to visualize the rest of the cardiovascular, skeletal, and muscular systems. The player can still target vehicles, but now has a chance to shoot the engines and disable the vehicle.

Multiplayer in "Sniper Elite III" consists of 5 modes of competitive gameplay; Team deathmatch, Deathmatch, Distance King, No Cross and Capture the flag. There is a large selection of maps to play on with large open environments.

In June 1942, during the Battle of Gazala, SOE sniper Karl Fairburne (Tom Clarke-Hill) is sent to assassinate General Franz Vahlen and uncover his top-secret project. He helps British soldiers repel General Erwin Rommel's forces, but ultimately, the port of Tobruk is lost. Fairburne heads to the Gaberoune oasis in Libya to kill several officers and reveal Vahlen's whereabouts. He only finds a document revealing the name of Vahlen's project, Project "Seuche" (literally meaning plague). The Long Range Desert Group asks for Fairburne's assistance in destroying several Flak 88s in Halfaya Pass.

Fairburne's only hope of finding Vahlen is by rescuing a British informant inside Fort Rifugio previously held by the British during Operation Compass. Fairburne successfully infiltrates Fort Rifugio and frees the informant. The man, Brauer, shares intelligence about officers meeting at the Siwa Oasis in Western Egypt. Fairburne, whose sniping has earned him the label "Wüstengeist" (Desert Ghost) by the Germans, sneaks into the town and finds out that the officers plan to betray Vahlen to Hitler by giving him the general's personal diary in Berlin. Fairburne kills the officer tasked as the courier and steals the book, which details Vahlen's plans to conquer Europe when the Afrika Korps win in North Africa, with his base of operations somewhere in the Kasserine Pass.

Fairburne and Brauer infiltrate the base and discover from a secret movie reel that Project "Seuche" is a supertank codenamed "Ratte". Tragically, Brauer is killed by a Tiger tank but Fairburne destroys it in revenge. He buries Brauer and takes a round from Brauer's gun. With the location of the "Ratte" production facility still unknown, Fairburne joins the LRDG in assaulting the German-controlled Pont du Fahs Airfield and finds a map leading to the facility, which is nestled inside the Mides canyon. He gets inside the complex and prepares satchel charges to collapse the base as well as destroy the "Ratte" prototype. To trigger the detonation, Fairburne puts an explosive on the "Ratte"'s turret and drops a load of the supertank's massive shells on it. Vahlen is mortally injured trying to escape the hangar and Fairburne takes his Luger, puts Brauer's round in the chamber and kills Vahlen before escaping the base.

A voiceover by Fairburne during the end credits reveals that the intelligence he acquired on the "Ratte" enables the USAAF and the RAF to launch the Battle of the Ruhr. The effect of Operation Chastise on steel production forces the Germans to scrap work on the "Ratte".

On 21 July 2014, Rebellion Developments announced a new downloadable content (DLC) pack for "Sniper Elite III". The DLC pack adds three new missions, one of which the player needs to save Winston Churchill from a German assassination attempt. In the first mission, "In Shadows", Fairburne must uncover the identity of Churchill's would-be assassins. He does this by sneaking back into the Siwa Oasis in Western Egypt which by this point has been won and lost by the Allies since his last visit. In the process, he learns the identity of the assassins and their leader. In the second mission, "Belly of the Beast", Fairburne must infiltrate the assassins' base in the Rif mountains in Morocco. Along the way, he uncovers evidence of a dangerous prototype weapon, the plans that describe how the assassination will be carried out, and where it will take place. During the final mission, "Confrontation", Fairburne must save Churchill from his would-be killers as the Prime Minister heads to the Casablanca Conference. Fairburne must eliminate any and all threats to Churchill including mortars, mines, rocket launchers, tanks, elite German soldiers and a mysterious masked marksman known only as Raubvogel. Other DLCs include new weapon packs. Most of the DLCs were included in the Sniper Elite III Ultimate Edition released in March 2015. (Hunt the Grey Wolf, character and some weapons packs DLC not included.)

"Sniper Elite III" received mixed reviews from critics upon release.

Hardcore Gamer's Matt Whittaker gave the game a 3/5, writing: "Though its stealth-based sniping gameplay can provide some exciting moments, Sniper Elite III is a decidedly mixed bag. Its abysmal narrative, outdated mission design, boring protagonist and weak non-campaign modes overshadow everything that it does well." Tyler Wilde of PC Gamer scored the game a 70/100 and wrote: ”Some of "Sniper Elite 3"s failures are funny [...] and some of them are frustrating, but its ideas are good and I hope they don't end here. [...] Realistically, I expect we'll have to wait for "Sniper Elite 4" for significant improvement."

Mikel Reparaz from IGN scored the game an 8.2/10 and wrote: "More than just a showcase for slow-motion gore, "Sniper Elite III" shines for its open-ended approach to stealth." Reparaz disliked the "skeletal" story and "shaky" artificial intelligence, but spoke positively of the large levels, "enthralling" gore, and the freedom given to devise different and diverse tactics.

David Roberts from GamesRadar gave the game a 3 out of 5. He too praised the large environments for allowing strategic play, but felt that the Kill-cam, though a cool feature, "loses appeal fast". Roberts particularly enjoyed the feeling of nailing a perfect shot from a mile away, saying it "never gets old". Roberts' main problems with the game were concerning an "overall lack of polish", and the "flat narrative" and "generic objectives". ""Sniper Elite 3" certainly has its share of thrilling moments," Roberts said, "whether you’re hunting blissfully unaware soldiers or being tracked by countersnipers in ghillie suits, but there are too many technical and narrative issues to simply ignore."

Eurogamer's Dan Whitehead wrote in his review: "The package as a whole is still very much a rough diamond, but it's a definite improvement over its predecessor. The gruesome kill-cam remains a deliciously wrong thrill and the unifying force that holds the game together, but it's doubtful that it would be enough to paper over the cracks in a fourth game without a major overhaul of the AI and physics code. Even with its flaws, though, "Sniper Elite 3" is a solidly enjoyable mid-tier action game. It may not hit the bullseye, but it's getting closer with every shot." Whitehead gave the game a 7/10.

Game Informer's Tim Turi wrote: "I openly admit that I love gory kills and living the hero sniper fantasy, but "Sniper Elite III" only partially delivers on the latter. If you can't get enough of dramatic, transparent shots of enemies getting shredded by sniper fire, "Sniper Elite III" has you covered in spades. If you're interested in more motivation beyond the glory of the kill, look elsewhere." Turin scored the game a 6.5/10 and had mixed feeling about the visuals, sound, Kill-cam, and controls.

GameSpot's Josiah Renaudin gave the game a 6/10. Renaudin disliked the balance between sniping (which he praised) and stealth, opining that the stealth is dull and overstays its welcome. Renaudin called the slow-motion kill-camera "devilishly satisfying", and praised the colourful environments for being an improvement over the previous games' instalments. Lastly, even though Renaudin thought the story was "uninspired" and disliked online matchmaking for being "broken", he too praised the level design for encouraging creativity.

On 7 March 2016, it was confirmed that a sequel, "Sniper Elite 4", would be released in 2016 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. In a blog post dated 10 June 2016, Rebellion co-founders Chris and Jason Kingsley revised the release date to 14 February 2017.


</doc>
<doc id="41072538" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072538" title="Hot Road">
Hot Road


The theme song is Yutaka Ozaki's "Oh My Little Girl".

The film was number-two on its opening weekend, behind "Stand By Me Doraemon", with in Japan. It earned a total of () at the Japanese box office, becoming the 9th highest-grossing Japanese film released that year in the country and the 15th highest-grossing film of the year in the country.



</doc>
<doc id="41072540" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072540" title="Avraham Bar-Am">
Avraham Bar-Am

Avraham Bar-Am (; born c. 1933) is a retired Israeli general. Bar-Am was the second in command of Israel's Northern Army Command in the 1982 Lebanon War; he retired in 1984. In 1986 he was one of 17 indicted in the Brokers of Death arms case involving the proposed sale of $2bn of US-made Israeli arms to Iran; the case was dropped in 1989 after prosecutors said it could not prove the defendants did not believe their dealings were officially sanctioned.

Bar-Am was an armored battalion commander in the 1967 Six-Day War, with the rank of colonel. Bar-Am blocked the retreat of Egyptian forces through the Sinai's Mitla Pass, against superior numbers and with little fuel and ammunition. He was promoted to brigadier and commanded an armored division in the 1973 Yom Kippur War. Bar-Am was the second in command of Israel's Northern Army Command in the 1982 Lebanon War; he retired in 1984.


</doc>
<doc id="41072562" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072562" title="List of doping cases in sport (C)">
List of doping cases in sport (C)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "C".


</doc>
<doc id="41072620" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072620" title="Tulsi Agarwal">
Tulsi Agarwal

Tulsi Agarwal (born 16 June 1959, in Kesinga, Kalahandi district, Odisha) is an Indian politician and a national executive member of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP)

Agarwal was instrumental in the formation of Biju Janta Dal (BJD) in Odisha and its alliance with the BJP. In 2010 he formed an alliance in Jharkhand under the leadership of Shri Arjun Munda. He has had close relations with the top brass of BJP such as the former PM Atal Bihari Vajpaye, Lal Krishna Advani, late Shri Promod Mahajan, Arun Jaitley and others. He is involved in IT/ITES infrastructure development in NCR and was the director of the nationalized Dena bank. Agarwal has been the vice president of the Roller Skating Federation of India since 1990, and because of his efforts, roller skating has received recognition from India's ministry of sports.

Tulsi Agrawal is married to Dr. Deepika Agrawal, an associate professor at the University of Delhi. He has a son and 2 daughters.



</doc>
<doc id="41072673" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072673" title="Daniel Reimold">
Daniel Reimold

Daniel Ryan Reimold (January 25, 1981 – August 20, 2015) was an assistant professor of journalism at Saint Joseph's University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. There, he advised "The Hawk", the student-run newspaper. He also wrote the college journalism blog College Media Matters.

Daniel Reimold earned his Bachelor of Arts degree in communication studies from Ursinus College in Collegeville, Pennsylvania and his Master's degree in journalism from Temple University in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. He earned his Ph.D. in journalism and mass communication, and a certificate in contemporary history from Ohio University in Athens, Ohio. He had taught at the University of Tampa, in Tampa, Florida. Reimold was a visiting assistant professor of journalism in Nanyang Technological University in Singapore and maintained the student journalism industry blog 'College Media Matters', which is affiliated with the College Media Association. 

Reimold's death was announced on August 21, 2015. Coroners reported that he suffered a seizure. He was 34 years old.


Published articles in outlets such as 
Published articles in books including: 




</doc>
<doc id="41072701" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072701" title="Heinrich Lang">
Heinrich Lang

Heinrich Lang (born in Württemberg, 14 November 1826) was a German Protestant pastor who was well known for preaching that all were equal before God without class distinction.

Although known for works in Switzerland, Lang grew up in the German state of Württemberg near Frommern. He was the eighth of ten children. In Frommern his father was a pastor and the ministry had been the family's occupation for generations. His father's teachings were highly influential, and from them Heinrich took his understanding of supernatural revelation, and his belief that all people are equal before God. Heinrich and his brothers were taught Latin by their father while preparing for divinity school.

Heinrich studied theology in Tübingen, where he was influenced by Ferdinand Christian Baur. In 1840, he graduated from college with honors, continued his education, and began living in a Roman Catholic school where he taught. 

In 1866, he was promoted and began teaching at a college and living at a monastery. He experienced bouts of melancholy while teaching mathematics, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, but he said that he was reinvigorated by each new group of students.

Lang's theology writings got him invited to the Saint Peter Church in Zürich, Switzerland as a pastor, where he served until his death.

In 1859, Lang became the editor of the "Zeitstimmen für die reformierte Schweiz" periodical, which was replaced by "Reform" in 1872. The Protestáns Society was formed in Hungary in 1860 as a result of Lang's ideas.

In 1863, he moved from the bank of Lake Zürich to Meilen. He was invited to the Saint Peter Church in Zürich as a pastor, where Lang served until his death.

He died in 1876.




</doc>
<doc id="41072714" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072714" title="Timeline of Graz">
Timeline of Graz

The following is a of the history of the city of Graz, Austria.








"This article incorporates information from the German Wikipedia."





</doc>
<doc id="41072736" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072736" title="United States Department of Energy Global Energy Storage Database">
United States Department of Energy Global Energy Storage Database

The United States Department of Energy's Global Energy Storage Database (GESDB) is a free-access database of energy storage projects and policies funded by the U.S. DOE, Office of Electricity and Sandia National Labs.

In 2013 the database covered 409 projects; it aimed to cover all energy storage projects globally by 2014.




</doc>
<doc id="41072745" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072745" title="Aaron Nusbaum">
Aaron Nusbaum

Aaron Nusbaum (January 8, 1859July 1, 1936) was an entrepreneur and philanthropist who is best known as one of the two men who acquired 50% of the stock in the fledgling Sears, Roebuck and Co. from Richard Sears and started it on the road to becoming a retail giant.

By 1893 he was a successful business man in Chicago and earned his first fortune when he obtained a concession to sell soda water soft drinks at the World’s Columbian Exposition. He received the contract by doing a favor for Marshall Field, a member of the Fair’s planning commission. His profit for the summer’s work was $150,000.00. ($3,750,000.00 in 2010). He invested part of that money in Bastedo Tube Company, a pneumatic tube manufacturer whose product is used to deliver messages and money in department stores between floors and departments. A sales call in 1895 led to his investment in Sears.

In 1895 Aaron Nusbaum had a meeting with Richard Sears, the co-founder of Sears Roebuck and Company. Nusbaum thought the meeting would involve selling pneumatic tubes to Sears however Richard Sears had other plans. The company was short of cash and Sears offered to sell Nusbaum half of the company for $75,000.00. In 1890 Julius Rosenwald had married Augusta Nusbaum, Aaron’s sister. Nusbaum asked his brother-in-law if he would be willing to buy a quarter of Sears Roebuck for $37,500.00. Rosenwald agreed and they paid Richard Sears $75,000.00 for one-half interest in Sears Roebuck and Company. The sale took place in 1895 and at that time the company was grossing about $800,000.00 a year. By 1900 that figure had grown to $11,000,000.00. In 1901 Sears and Rosenwald had a dispute with Nusbaum, bought him out for $1.25 million and Nusbaum resigned as Secretary and Treasurer. He was succeeded as Secretary by the Company’s outside lawyer, Albert Henry Loeb of Loeb & Adler (now known as Arnstein & Lehr, LLP) who had prepared the papers for Nusbaum’s departure and had also had structured the original sale to Nusbaum and Rosenwald and the incorporation of Sears in Illinois. The decision to oust Nusbaum was difficult for Rosenwald. Despite repeated attempts by his wife Gussie for reconciliation, Nusbaum never spoke again with his brother-in-law or sister.

After Nusbaum left Sears, he took an extended trip to Europe. On returning, he changed his name to Aaron Norman and his investments added to his wealth. He founded Abacus & Associates, a wealth investment firm, which is still operated by his family. Upon his death in 1936, Nusbaum willed a million dollars to the Assistance Fund, Inc, a New York charitable organization.



</doc>
<doc id="41072760" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072760" title="Bobbio Missal">
Bobbio Missal

The Bobbio Missal Paris, BNF lat. 13246) is a seventh-century Christian liturgical codex that probably originated in France.

The Missal contains a lectionary, a sacramentary and some canonical material (such as a penitential). It was found in Bobbio Abbey in Italy by the Benedictine monk Jean Mabillon between June 4th and June 9th of 1686. 

The Missal is the earliest liturgical manuscript surviving from the medieval period. Its specific authorship and provenance is much disputed, though general agreement points to the valley of the Rhône, with Besançon (Mabillon's suggestion) and Vienne given as two popular options.

"The manuscript is small in format, 180 x 90 mm (130 x 70 mm) with an average of 22 long lines to the page. That is, it is slightly narrower and taller than a modern paperback book. It has the appearance of a chunky (at 300 folios/600 pages) and easily transportable working copy of the crucial mass texts it contains". According to E.A. Lowe: "The Missal proper is written by one hand, designated as M... the few pages in uncial - the Mass pro principe, written by another hand - are referred to as M2... the pages containing added matter, in two different styles of crude writing, one showing distinct majuscule and the other as distinct minuscule traits, are referred to as A and a".


Jean Mabillon believed the Missal to be of the Frankish tradition. He cited the collections "post nomina", "ad pacem" and the formula of the "Contestatio" as being characteristic of Gallican Liturgy. He also cited similarities between the Bobbio Missal and the Missale Gothicum/Gallicanum and the Lectionary of Luxeuil. The order of some significant feast days in the Bobbio Missal were also similar to the Gallican tradition; this ruled out the Mozarabic, Ambrosian or Roman traditions. The order of the liturgy in the Bobbio Ambrosian , such as the placement of the scripture readings and the Pax Vobiscum. distinguishes it from the African tradition (here Mabillon quotes St. Augustine to support his deductions).

The content of the Missal do not completely match with the contents of the Gothic/Gallican missal. Mabillon explains that liturgy was not uniform in Francia prior to Charlemagne and his reforms. Thus differences between dioceses and even parishes in their liturgy was common. 

Mabillon dated the Missal to the late 7th century. As proof, he mentions that the name “Bertulfus” was found in the margin of a leaf. That would refer to the Abbot of Bobbio in the mid 7th century.

The contents of the Missal listed as collections, readings from the prophets, the apostles and the gospels, contestations of the Mass for the whole year and a penitential. The penitential is particularly of interest to Mabillon, as it increases our understanding of that era.

Mabillon states that it is possible the Missal could have come from, and been in use at, Besançon, the location of the Luxeuil Abbey. This is because the Missal includes the mass for St. Sigismund, King of Burgundy. Mabillon states unequivocally that the Missal could not have originated in Bobbio, as it does not refer to or contain any local saints or St. Columbanus and his disciples. In addition, the Missal does not contain monastic materials used at that time in Bobbio by the monks. 

As the Missal does not contain anything about Columbanus and his disciples, Mabillon’s guesses that St. Columbanus himself may have been involved with the Missal , placing it in the Celtic tradition - but Mabillon does not elaborate on this. The "Catholic Encyclopedia" (1917) in its entry on the Celtic Rite, lists the Bobbio Missal in its section entitled "Manuscript sources - Irish (whether insular or continental)".

Mabillon notes that in the "Missa Pro Principe" (Mass for the Prince), after the "Contestatio" in the Canon, the name of the martyr Eugenia is commemorated as well as the other usual saints, this being a unique occurrence. It also happens in the mass for Christmas Eve. This special inclusion of Eugenia could be linked to a province or part of Frankia where a cult of Eugenia was prevalent, but Mabillon knew of no such place.

Mabillon’s title for the manuscript is "Sacramentario de Ecclesia Gallicana" ("Sacramentary of the Gallican Church") - that is, a book about Gallican liturgy. He deemed that more correct than calling it a Gallican Liturgy or a Liturgy from Bobbio, both of which titles refer specifically to books containing only liturgy.

Many modern scholars consider the Bobbio Missal to be "one of the most intriguing liturgical manuscripts from early medieval Francia". The most comprehensive study to date is Yitzhak Hen and Rob Meens’ "The Bobbio Missal: liturgy and religious culture in Merovingian Gaul". This book of collected works by international scholars who met in Utrecht in 2001 examines in detail "virtually all of the issues that have swirled around the Bobbio missal". It was published in 2004, and summarizes the history of scholarship on the manuscript in terms of philology, paleography, Latin spelling and orthography, theology and liturgy amongst other aspects.

Rosamond McKitterick suggested that the Missal could have been a gift to a certain priest or bishop, in celebration of his ordination or perhaps a special appointment. She says, "the book itself, therefore, may be witness to a complex web of social and pastoral association, and possibly to the relationship between a bishop and his clergy. Such a gift... would most likely have been a working copy, designed for constant reference and use". McKitterick also indicated that the additions to the Missal, which occurred at a later time, may have been added by members of the community in which the book was used, for practical purposes. McKitterick agrees with Mabillon on the origin of the manuscript in Provençal or somewhere in South-East France, around the late 7th/early 8th century, and that it was not designed for use in a monastic community.

David Ganz reports that the script in the Bobbio Missal is the "earliest true minuscule, a script which allowed scribes to save space without sacrificing legibility".

Marco Mostert, building on E.A. Lowe’s division of the script into four characteristic styles of writing - M, M2, a and A - asserts that three of these styles were meant to be read aloud: "Having considered the punctuation and word spacing of the oldest quires, we have found the conventions of M to be consistent with those of late antique (liturgical) books meant for reading aloud by a native speaker of Latin - even if the consistency of the punctuation may leave something to be desired... M2 follows M’s conventions, as did A. The scribe of a, however, does not seem to have meant his texts to be read aloud (or performed) by anyone but himself".

Charles and Roger Wright note that additions were made to the Bobbio Missal - that is, texts were added some time afterward by a subsequent scribe, notably the sermon "De Dies Malus" and an untitled question/answer dialogue primarily regarding biblical and ecclesiastical history. The somewhat confusing grammatical state of these texts may have been due to the scribe’s intention to utilize them as a basis or template for reading aloud, and thus was not designed to have been grammatically accurate.

Yitzak Hen hypothesizes, along with Lowe, that the Bobbio Missal was created by an individual in his private capacity for practical purposes, and that its small size indicates it traveled with its owner: "Judging from the script and the manuscript layout, it is well justified to describe the Bobbio Missal as a vade mecum of a Merovingian clergyman...It seems, therefore, safe to conclude that the Bobbio Missal is indeed a vade mecum of a bishop or even a priest, who offered liturgical services to secular, clerical and monastic communities...its unique and practical selections of prayers and benedictions supports this conclusion. A sacramentary like the Bobbio Missal would have been inadequate for the liturgical celebration in a Merovingian episcopal church".

A facsimile volume of the Bobbio Missal was produced for the Henry Bradshaw Society by E. A. Lowe in 1917 and an edition of the text in 1920.



</doc>
<doc id="41072767" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072767" title="Barnett Field">
Barnett Field

Barnett Field was a baseball ballpark located in Fargo, North Dakota, United States. The field, named after area attorney William H. Barnett, was a Works Progress Administration project that hosted its first games in 1936. It was home to the Fargo-Moorhead Twins, a minor league baseball team, until 1960. It was demolished in 1963. Fargo North High School was built in its place.



</doc>
<doc id="41072808" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072808" title="Banco Alfa">
Banco Alfa

Alfa Bank is a Brazilian commercial bank based in São Paulo. The bank's president is Aloysio de Andrade Faria.

The bank dates to 1925, when it was founded as Banco da Lavoura de Minas Gerais, whose name was changed in 1972 to Banco Real. In 1998 its controlling interest was sold to ABN AMRO. The financial companies that weren't sold became Alfa Financial Conglomerate, which later merged with Alfa Bank.



</doc>
<doc id="41072832" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072832" title="Nosferatu molango">
Nosferatu molango

Nosferatu molango (previously placed in the genus "Herichthys"), also known as Aztec Cichlid, is a species of cichlid endemic to the "Laguna Azteca", in the headwaters of the Rio Moctezuma (Rio Panuco Basin), in the municipality of Molango, state of Hidalgo, Mexico at 1,270 meters above sea level. It is distinguished from other species of the genus in "having a slender (slightly broader than long), well-spaced, unicuspid and conical, posterior slightly flattened, indented lower pharyngeal plate (instead of having large molars), with 2 rows of 8–9 medium-sized, lightly pigmented molars that flank the midline; 11–13 nonenlarged conic teeth along the posterior margin. Distinguished from all other species in the genus by a combination of the following characters: predorsal contour deep and nonacute, which is not concave before the eye; head short (mean 35%, SD 3%), rostral tip to the pectoral fin origin distance (mean 33%, SD 1%); caudal peduncle short (mean 15%, SD 1%) and deep (mean 16%, SD 1%), long anal fin (origin to hypural base distance; mean 40%, SD 1%); wide preorbit (mean 30%, SD 3%); eye small (mean 21%, SD 2%). Peritoneum is uniformly very dark."

Its live color is light goldenrod to olive in dorsal areas and very light on the flanks and belly. Snout and head are densely covered with speckles that extend posteriorly to nuchal area and onto gill cleft. Scales over flanks fringed by diamond-shaped darker outlines (scale-pockets), thicker over posterio-ventral half, giving the flanks a reticulate appearance. All specimens with red marking at axil, behind pectoral fin. Dorsal and caudal fins are same color as the body with four lines of red dots extending onto soft areas and conspicuous on inter-radial membranes. Tip of caudal fin reddish.

The Aztec cichlid has been effectively extirpated from Laguna Azteca. The species and its habitat have been severely impacted by the introduction of tilapias, largemouth bass ("Micropterus salmoides") and sunfish ("Lepomis "spp.), which greatly threaten the viability of the entire "N. molango" population.


</doc>
<doc id="41072863" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072863" title="Richard Harrow">
Richard Harrow

Richard Harrow is a fictional character on the television series "Boardwalk Empire", played by the actor Jack Huston.

Richard Harrow was a sharpshooter in the US Army during World War I. He was badly disfigured during the war, losing his eye, upper jaw and most of the cheekbone on the left side of his face. He has also suffered some throat damage which causes him to speak in a low, muffled voice. Because of his appearance, Harrow wears a tin mask in public that was molded to mirror the intact right side of his face.

After the war he returned to Wisconsin where his twin sister, Emma, cared for him while his wounds healed. Once he was able to care for himself he left to live in Chicago.

Richard meets fellow veteran Jimmy Darmody (Michael Pitt) in an army hospital in Chicago, and they become fast friends. To prove his loyalty, Richard kills a local gangster who had disfigured a young prostitute with whom Jimmy was close. Jimmy invites Richard to stay with him and his family, and brings him into his bootlegging outfit.

Richard accompanies Jimmy back to New Jersey, where he becomes a hit man working for Jimmy under Atlantic City political boss Nucky Thompson (Steve Buscemi). Richard then moves into the Thompson home where he acts as a bodyguard to Nucky, his companion Margaret Schroeder (Kelly Macdonald) and her two small children. At first Margaret and her children are frightened by Richard's appearance, but they eventually warm up to him.

Richard is now established as the right hand man on Jimmy's bootlegging crew. Jimmy and Richard have now gone into business with Charlie "Lucky" Luciano (Vincent Piazza), Meyer Lansky (Anatol Yusef) and Al Capone (Stephen Graham). Richard has also moved into the Darmody household, where he befriends Jimmy's wife Angela (Aleksa Palladino). Angela, a painter, asks Richard if she can do his portrait; he reluctantly agrees. During their session, Richard confides in Angela that he and his sister have not spoken since he left home. Richard then voluntarily removes his mask, and she paints his portrait.

Richard ventures out into a secluded forest during a remembrance day memorial, intending to commit suicide. As he puts a shotgun in his mouth, a hunter's dog runs off with his tin mask. Richard chases the dog, and finds two hunters sitting around a campfire, who convince him to keep on living.

Richard serves as Jimmy's lieutenant throughout a turf war with Nucky, and remains loyal even as they suffer serious financial losses. Richard is deeply saddened by Angela's death at the hands of Philadelphia gangster Manny Horvitz (William Forsythe), and begins to wonder if their business is worth the price they pay. 

To mend fences with Nucky, Richard and Jimmy go to Alderman James Neary (Robert Clohessy), scheduled to testify against Nucky, force him to type a note at gunpoint exonerating Nucky, then Richard shoots him in the head and stages his death as a suicide. When Nucky calls Jimmy and says they have captured Horvitz, both Jimmy and Richard sense a trap, and Richard offers to go along. Jimmy refuses, however, and tells Richard to live a good life. After Jimmy is murdered, Richard moves in with Jimmy's mother Gillian (Gretchen Mol) at her estate.

One year later, Richard is a permanent resident at the late Commodore's estate, which Gillian has since turned into a brothel. Richard now acts as a caretaker at the brothel, and looks after Jimmy's son Tommy. Richard seeks vengeance on Manny Horvitz, who is now a member of Nucky's organization, for the death of Angela. Richard waits outside the Horvitz home and then shoots Horvitz in the face with a shotgun as he opens the door to leave his house.

Richard ventures off one evening to a veteran's legion for support and to discuss compensation which has been promised to wounded veterans. It's here that Richard meets Paul Sagorsky (Mark Borkowski), a bitter drunk who lost his son in the war. Richard looks after Paul when he is injured in a bar fight, and meets Paul's daughter Julia (Wrenn Schmidt). He falls in love with her, and they begin a courtship, despite her father's objections. 

Later in the season, Gillian's brothel is occupied by New York gangster Gyp Rosetti (Bobby Cannavale), who is at war with Nucky Thompson. Fearing for Tommy's safety, Richard attempts to remove the boy to Julia's house, but Gillian finds out about the plan and, angered, she has Rosetti's men kick Richard out. Richard arms himself and methodically kills most of Rossetti's men one by one through the house, recovering Tommy, whom he leaves at the Sagorsky home. Richard then flees Atlantic City.

One year later, Richard makes his way to his childhood home in Wisconsin to visit his twin sister Emma (Katherine Waterston). Richard returns home to find Emma widowed, pregnant and in debt. During his visit with his sister, Richard finds it difficult to put down the family dog. During this time Richard is tracked down by a former client who had hired Richard previously to carry out an assassination contract that was not honored. They corner Richard in the barn; during the ensuing struggle, Richard kills one of the gangsters, but the other one breaks Richard's hand and nearly kills him. Emma arrives just in time and kills the gangster, saving Richard's life. Richard realizes he is a danger to his sister and decides to go back to Atlantic City.

Upon returning to Atlantic City, Richard bumps into Paul Sagorsky, who is dying of cirrhosis of the liver. Richard finds out that Julia and Paul are locked in a custody battle with Gillian over Tommy. Richard returns to the Sagorsky's home to help Julia, whom he marries. To provide for his new family, Richard gets a job washing dishes at the Onyx Club, with the help of Nucky.

When Gillian is arrested for murder, Richard and Julia see an opportunity to get permanent custody of Tommy. Gillian claims that the body found on her estate was that of her son, Jimmy, and with the body having been cremated, there is no way to prove otherwise. In order to undermine her story, Richard asks Nucky for the location where Jimmy's body is actually buried. Nucky agrees to tell Richard, but for a price: he must eliminate New York gangster Dr. Valentin Narcisse (Jeffrey Wright), who is causing problems for Nucky and his associate Chalky White (Michael K. Williams). As he prepares to shoot Narcisse, he hesitates and his hand shakes, and he accidentally kills White's daughter Maybelle when she unexpectedly steps into the line of fire. Richard is mortally wounded in the ensuing gunfire, but manages to make his way to the Atlantic City Boardwalk, where he dies. His dying visions show him returning to the farm in Wisconsin to meet his entire family, with his face complete and healed.

Jack Huston was interviewed by "Rolling Stone" magazine. Huston stated that he was told that his character was going to die on the episode of Harrow's death. Huston stated that it was very appropriate for Harrow, a tragic character, to die tragically. Being honored instead of upset about the ending, Huston claimed that the writers wrote "the most unbelievably beautiful ending, and it made so much sense." Glad to have played a longer-than-initially-expected role in "Boardwalk Empire", Huston stated that it was the start of his career in acting. Terence Winter said that if Harrow was not fatally wounded after shooting Maybelle, then Harrow would have committed suicide. Huston agrees that Harrow would have done that, for fact of killing Maybelle would be unforgivable in Harrow's mind. Huston stated that at first "Richard was a brilliant killer"; then he gives up killing, losing confidence; later, he was intuitive and expected himself to err; after shooting Maybelle he hesitates, allowing himself to be shot. Huston posited that Harrow's scrapbook became a reality: he fell in love, married, and had a family. Regarding Harrow's vision at the end of his life, Huston stated "In a way he reached heaven in his life."



</doc>
<doc id="41072874" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072874" title="Hag ha-Gez">
Hag ha-Gez

Hag ha-Gez or Re´shit ha-Gez was the biblical festival or celebration of the shearing of the sheep.

Hag ha-Gez took place once a year, at the beginning of the spring, once the winter cold was gone. Although lacking the liturgical importance of the pilgrim festivals related to the harvest of cereals at the beginning of the agricultural season or to the harvest of grapes and the ingathering of fruits at the end of the period, the shearing of the sheep was, nonetheless, a memorable convivium that brought together people of different localities to enjoy banquets "fit for royalty". The "first fruits of the shearing of the flock" were entitlements of the priests, just as it were the first fruits of grain, wine and oil and portions of the animals sacrificed.

No specific celebration of the shearing of the sheep takes place in present-day Israel (The attempts at kibbutzim to introduce any new kind of agricultural festival of secular nature haven´t succeeded). The possibility exists, however, that Lag BaOmer, a joyful celebration of obscure origin and forgotten meaning, observed since Geonic times in mid-spring and in which highly religious Jews give their three-year-old boys their first haircut, could somehow echo the ancient event.



</doc>
<doc id="41072891" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072891" title="Carlos Augusto León">
Carlos Augusto León

Carlos Augusto León (Caracas, October 20, 1914 – 1997) is a Venezuelan poet, essayist, historian, politician and scientist.

He gained a doctorate degree in physical science and mathematics from the Central University of Venezuela in 1936. He also gained a teaching degree in history and geography from the National Pedagogical Institute, and taught for over 5 years at the Andrés Bello Lyceum School in Caracas. In the last twenty years of his employed life he worked as a professor of contemporary literature at the Central University of Venezuela, an institution in which he also served as director of the Department of Publications. In the second half of his life Augusto Leon was preoccupied with writing poetry and being outspoken in politics, particularly in defense of the common people and disadvantaged social groups. During the dictatorship of General Marcos Pérez Jiménez he was imprisoned and then exiled for a long time. He took advantage of his time in exile by taking his political message and poetic word to many Latin American and European countries. In 1953 he traveled to Russia where he was awarded the World Peace Council Prize. He later returned to Venezuela and held notable political posts, such as City Council member of Caracas and then Senator in the National Congress.

As in his politics, Augusto León's poetry carried a social message, characterized by its defense of the common people.




</doc>
<doc id="41072994" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072994" title="Khortab, Lahijan">
Khortab, Lahijan

Khortab (, also Romanized as Khortāb) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 71, in 24 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073046" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073046" title="Shiva, Iran">
Shiva, Iran

Shiva (, also Romanized as Shīvā; also known as Shīū) is a village in Lafmejan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 204, in 68 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073048" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073048" title="1732 in Wales">
1732 in Wales

This article is about the particular significance of the year 1732 to Wales and its people.







</doc>
<doc id="41073072" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073072" title="Monte Carlo (radio programme)">
Monte Carlo (radio programme)

Monte Carlo was a Danish radio programme that was broadcast on the national Danish radio channel DR P3. The program consisted of two radio personalities; Esben Bjerre Hansen and Peter Falktoft. 

The programme was originally broadcast between 9.00 and 12.00 AM each Sunday, which was later changed when airtime was moved to 2-4 PM on all working days. 

The programme contained different features ranging from quizzes to satirical inputs, including (translated) "The Quotation Index", "The Per Wimmer Quiz", "The Mystical Mr. Mox Quiz" and "Heard over the hedge" (#hørtoverhækken). The radio personalities often made fun of a select group of Danish celebrities and politicians, most noticeably the Danish producer, composer and songwriter Remee, the Danish professional road bicycle racer Rolf Sørensen and the Danish politician Simon Emil Ammitzbøl.
In 2012, Monte Carlo was a part of the DR's coverage of the United States presidential election, sending from Miami, Florida, from 29 October to 7 November 2012.

In a big poll by DR, Esben Bjerre Hansen and Peter Falktoft were proposed as hosts for the Eurovision Song Contest 2014 held in the Danish capital, Copenhagen, with the two radio personalities receiving a substantial number of votes, although they were superseded by Nikolaj Koppel, Pilou Asbæk and Lise Rønne. 


</doc>
<doc id="41073097" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073097" title="Kushal">
Kushal

Kushal (, also Romanized as Kūshāl) is a village in Layalestan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 669, in 234 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073116" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073116" title="Marcel Pepin">
Marcel Pepin

Marcel Pepin (February 28, 1926 – March 6, 2000) was a trade unionist in Quebec, Canada. He was the president of the Confédération des syndicats nationaux from 1965 until 1976.

Pepin graduated with a master's degree in industrial relations from the faculty of social sciences at the Université Laval in 1949.

He became negotiator for the textile workers and steelworkers federations of the CTCC. In 1961 he became the secretary general of the Confédération des syndicats nationaux (CSN). In 1965, he was elected president of the CSN, succeeding to Jean Marchand, who had left the CSN to join the Liberal Party of Canada. During Pepin's tenure as president, the CSN moved toward more radical orientations. In 1972, the three major labour federations of Quebec temporarily concerted their forces into a "common front" ("front commun") during negotiations with the government of Robert Bourassa; Pepin and the two other union leaders recommended illegal strikes and defiance of court orders and they were sentenced to jail for those actions. In 1976, Pepin was succeeded by Norbert Rodrigue as president of the CSN.

Pepin was president of the World Confederation of Labour from 1973 until 1981.

From 1980 until 1990 Pepin taught at the school of industrial relations of the Université de Montréal. He retired in 1990.

In 1979, Pepin and other trade unionists and academics published a manifesto for the creation of a socialist movement and in 1981 they founded a left-wing political party, the Mouvement socialiste. That party ran ten candidates in the 1985 and 1989 Quebec general elections, but it remained marginal and was dissolved around 1991.

He was married to Lucie Dagenais. He had five children.


</doc>
<doc id="41073120" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073120" title="Chasse-marée (cart)">
Chasse-marée (cart)

In medieval France a chasse-marée was a cart designed to carry fresh fish to inland markets, with a minimum of weight put into construction and provision for harnessing four horses.

The medieval French chasse-marée merchants originally catered to the demand for fresh fish in inland markets by carrying fish in pairs of baskets on pack ponies, as far as possible, overnight. However, the distance coverable before the fish deteriorated was limited.

Later, where the quality of the road permitted, the range might be extended by the use of "charrettes" (carts). When designed for this trade, with a minimum of weight put into their construction and provision for harnessing the four horses, these vehicles took the name of "chasse-marée". As speed was essential, they were normally hauled by two pairs of horses rather than the single horse which is normal for a cart. The vehicle took the form of two wheels, of a diameter large enough to minimize the slowing effect of bumps in the road. On their axle was mounted an open rectangular frame within which were slung the baskets holding the fish, packed in seaweed. More baskets were stacked above. The teams of usually fairly small horses were worked hard and changed at posting stations in the same way as those of mail coaches.

The coast supplying Paris by road was originally, that which was nearest to its market, around Le Tréport and Saint-Valery-sur-Somme. At its most developed, it extended from Fécamp to Calais including such places as Dieppe, Boulogne-sur-Mer and Étaples.

Some horse lovers have been attracted to the idea of driving a version of the chasse-marée carts, as a recreation.


</doc>
<doc id="41073174" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073174" title="Fun with Frith">
Fun with Frith

Fun with Frith was an early Australian(?) television series. It aired on Melbourne station HSV-7 in 1957, from 9 March to 15 June 1957 for a total of 15 episodes. The series was broadcast at 7:25PM on Saturdays, each episode being a brief 5 minutes long. The series featured cartoonist John Frith, who provided jokes and sketches.

"Fun with Frith" was preceded on HSV's schedule by US series "Kaleidoscope" and followed by another US series, "Grantland Rice".

The archival status of "Fun with Frith" is not known. Additionally, it was not the only five-minute series to have aired on HSV-7 during 1957. For example, "Green Fingers" started off as a five-minute series before expanding to 15 minutes. GTV-9, meanwhile, offered a five-minute music series, also at 7:25PM on Saturdays, with Dennis Gibbons and Stan Stafford alternating each week.



</doc>
<doc id="41073191" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073191" title="Ahandan Rural District">
Ahandan Rural District

Ahandan Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11,859, in 3,270 families. The rural district has 38 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073207" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073207" title="Baz Kia Gurab Rural District">
Baz Kia Gurab Rural District

Baz Kia Gurab Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 15,029, in 4,430 families. The rural district has 21 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073209" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073209" title="Lafmejan Rural District">
Lafmejan Rural District

Lafmejan Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 6,353, in 2,132 families. The rural district has 19 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073212" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073212" title="Layalestan Rural District">
Layalestan Rural District

Layalestan Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 12,993, in 3,893 families. The rural district has 18 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073219" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073219" title="Layl Rural District">
Layl Rural District

Layl Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 12,183, in 3,523 families. The rural district has 40 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073234" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073234" title="Shirju Posht Rural District">
Shirju Posht Rural District

Shirju Posht Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 15,716, in 4,711 families. The rural district has 29 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073237" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073237" title="Rudboneh Rural District">
Rudboneh Rural District

Rudboneh Rural District () is a rural district ("dehestan") in Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 11,893, in 3,519 families. The rural district has 19 villages.


</doc>
<doc id="41073272" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073272" title="Begonia samhaensis">
Begonia samhaensis

Begonia samhaensis is a species in the Begoniaceae family. Similar to "Begonia socotrana" but separated by the asymmetrically ovate leaves and the unequal tepals in the male flowers; outer tepals broadly orbicular, 1.5–2.2 × 1.7–2.5 cm; inner obovate elliptic, 1.4–2.0 × 0.8 × 1.4 cm.

Damp and shady cracks in north-facing limestone cliffs, on the island of Samhah in the Socotra Archipelago, Yemen.
Grows on north facing cliffs on the summit pinnacle and escarpments of the limestone plateau at the centre of Samhah island. Its area of occupation is less than 10 km. The cliffs where it grows catch precipitation and mists principally from the NE monsoon and represent a unique habitat on Samhah island.

Unlike "B. socotrana", "B. samhaensis" flowers after rain and is not reliant on short day-length.


</doc>
<doc id="41073301" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073301" title="List of doping cases in sport (D)">
List of doping cases in sport (D)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "D".


</doc>
<doc id="41073302" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073302" title="Insurance Institute of Canada">
Insurance Institute of Canada

The Insurance Institute of Canada is a professional, nonprofit organization with its roots dating back to 1899. It was created for the purpose of providing professional development for men and women employed in the Canadian property and casualty insurance industry.

Based in Toronto, Canada, The Insurance Institute of Canada is the umbrella organization for a network of 19 institutes and chapters across Canada. It is connected globally with like institutes around the world through the Institute for Global Insurance Education.

It is a professional educator, examining body and publishing house. It develops and administers licensing exams, and it represents every employment sector of the property & casualty insurance business – including insurers, reinsurers, underwriters, brokers, independent adjusters, plus others in related financial services.

The Insurance Institute offers two formal designation programs for insurance professionals, including the Chartered Insurance Professional (CIP) and the Fellow Chartered Insurance Professional (FCIP). These designations serve as qualification for employment and promotional opportunities required by many industry employers.

The Insurance Institutes, at both the national and local level, work with provincial and territorial regulators to align educational offerings with regulatory licensing regimes.

To promote personal and career development, the institutes and chapters organize networking opportunities in addition to events and seminars.

Membership in the Insurance Institute of Canada is made up of a variety of types of people and currently stands in excess of 39,000. Members can be students or graduates of the CIP or FCIP designation programs, or they can be regular members engaged in other forms of professional development such as certificate programs.

The Insurance Institute offers programs in each of the following three areas – Professional Development and Designations, Networking and Career Development, and Insights and Resources.

Professional development and designation programs can be divided into four distinct areas: professional designations, certificate programs, insurance licensing & continuing education (CE) credits and professional development. A brief summary of each area is as follows:
Professional development includes formal education programs leading to CIP and FCIP designations via classroom, distance and web-based learning. The Insurance Institute has an active student body of approximately 20,000 people.
In partnership with several community colleges and universities across Canada, its CIP program is used to educate full-time students whose studies include property and casualty insurance.
Licensing and continuing education (CE) credits are offered to insurance agents and brokers, independent claims adjusters and life agents.
These programs include non-designation courses and seminars, both In-class and virtual. They deal with subject areas such as insurance and technical knowledge, business and management, as well as interpersonal and communications skills.

The Chartered Insurance Professional (CIP) Program provides general and technical knowledge specific to the Canadian property and casualty (p&c) insurance industry, leading to a CIP designation. Designations represent the national standard for professionalism, technical expertise and leadership in the p&c insurance sector.

The CIP designation is a starting point for many insurance careers. Unique to the Insurance Institute, it is a uniform standard indicating that all CIPs have met the same test of knowledge.

The CIP Program provides skills and knowledge related to several available career paths, including insurance broker or agent, underwriter, adjuster or risk manager.

The CIP Program consists of approximately 30 courses, 10 of which are required to satisfy the educational requirements of the designation. Of these 10:

There is a one-year industry experience requirement to graduate.

CIP Applied Professional Courses are intended to give students an opportunity to shape their learning according to specific career interests. Specific areas of focus include underwriters, adjusters or broker/agents.

The Fellow Chartered Insurance Professional (FCIP) Program is a designation program tailored to Canada's property and casualty (p&c) insurance industry.

The Insurance Institute of Canada established the FCIP curriculum dating back to the 1950s. During the late 1970s, the program was revised by approving a set of university based subjects for the program. FCIP candidates then took any of these approved courses, which were offered primarily through the continuing education departments of universities.

The FCIP Program was re-launched in 2010. The current FCIP program includes six courses, developed at a post-degree level, that are tailored specifically to the Canadian p&c sector. The original-track FCIP is no longer accepting entries and is scheduled to close in 2017.

The Insurance Institute developed the current FCIP in collaboration with senior industry executives and academics from business schools across the country. The virtual program is designed to provide a comprehensive, insurance-focused understanding of strategic leadership and advanced management techniques, leading to the FCIP designation.

More than 3,500 people across Canada hold an FCIP, FIIC, FPAA or FIAC designation.

The FCIP Program follows a progression of the following six courses, which are taken sequentially as listed below, starting with F510 and concluding with F560.

The Insurance Institute offers networking and career development programs. 
The CIP Society provides for the professional needs of more than 17,000 graduates of the CIP and FCIP programs. The division provides networking and social programs for CIP Society members.
Career Connections maintains an insurance presence in secondary and post-secondary schools, educating young adults about the fundamental concepts of insurance and career opportunities available in the p&c insurance industry.

The Insurance Institute authors a number of academic resources for use by the Canadian property and casualty industry. These resources include annual reports and newsletters, industry surveys and research, instructor exchanges, legal briefs, CIP and FCIP textbooks.

The Insurance Institute's activities are administered by three separate divisions – The Academic Division, Graduate Division and Career Connections.

All Insurance Institute courses and programs are designed to meet high standards. Graduates abide by a Code of Ethics designed to maintain professional practice and conduct. As a designation-granting institution, the Insurance Institute holds qualifying examinations and elects graduates as CIPs and FCIPs.

The Insurance Institute Board of Governors meets once annually to receive reports, address policy issues and approve finances for the organization. It includes executives from major insurance employers across Canada together with representatives of local institute councils. Board members are elected to represent members of local institutes and chapters, as well as senior industry leadership.

The Executive Committee is the senior decision-making body within the Board of Governors. It also oversees its four sub-committees (Finance, Nominations, Pension and Compensation).

The Insurance Institute relies heavily on its strong network of volunteers across the country. Volunteers play an integral role in the support, development and execution of Institute initiatives and activities throughout the year. The Insurance Institute is a platinum sponsor of the National Insurance Conference of Canada. Other philanthropic commitments include: the Women in Insurance Cancer Crusade event, Toronto Insurance Women's Association and the Canadian Association of Insurance Women. 
National Education Week, which the Insurance Institute created in 2009, raises awareness among members and celebrates education within the Canadian insurance industry. Normally held the last week of February, special events, seminars and networking opportunities take place within each institute and chapter, often organized with national subscribing companies.

1899 – John B. Laidlaw, manager of the Norwich Union Fire Insurance Society in Canada, made the call to fellow insurance managers in the country to create an insurance institute in Canada along the lines of institutes being formed in Great Britain in the late 1870s. Two hundred and thirty industry representatives responded, giving birth to the Insurance Institute of Toronto.

1900 – The Insurance Institute of Montreal formed.

1920s – The Insurance Institute of British Columbia and the Insurance Institute of Winnipeg were established.

1931 – President of the Insurance Institute of Toronto, W.H. Burgess, first raised the idea of a national institute.

1947 – The Insurance Institute of Toronto became the Insurance Institute of Ontario.
1952 – All institutes joined in association with The Insurance Institute of Canada to establish a uniform standard of insurance education and examinations. The first president of the Insurance Institute, Norman G. Bethune, outlined the following three major objectives for the organization in the President's Address to The First Annual Meeting of the Insurance Institute of Canada:
As initially stated in the resolutions establishing The Insurance Institute of Canada, the purpose of the organization was "to co-operate with all organisations, both insurance and educational, in the interests of insurance education, all to the end that the service of the business to the insuring public and to Canada generally will be maintained and enhanced, and the efficiency, progress and general development of the business will be promoted." A contemporary example of co-operating with other industry organizations to further insurance education can be found on the website of the Insurance Bureau of Canada (IBC), a trade organization for Canada's home, auto and business insurers.

1998 – The CIP Society was officially sanctioned and the new designations were approved.

2002 – 50th anniversary celebration for the Insurance Institute.

2013 – The Insurance Institute continues to set the syllabus of p&c insurance studies, produces the appropriate Canadian texts, conducts distance-learning courses, holds national examinations and elects graduates.


</doc>
<doc id="41073312" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073312" title="Tucker Barnhart">
Tucker Barnhart

Tucker Jackson Barnhart (born January 7, 1991) is an American professional baseball catcher for the Cincinnati Reds of Major League Baseball (MLB). He made his MLB debut in 2014, and won the Gold Glove Award in 2017.

Barnhart was born in Indianapolis, the son of Kevin and Pam Barnhart, and brother to Paige. When Tucker was 11, the family moved west of Indianapolis to Brownsburg, Indiana. He attended Brownsburg High School and played for the school's baseball team. As a junior in 2008, he hit .500 and was named to the Louisville Slugger High School All-American team. In his senior year at Brownsburg, he was named "Mr. Baseball" for the state of Indiana.

Prior to his senior season, Barnhart committed to attend the Georgia Institute of Technology on a baseball scholarship to play for the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets.

Heading into the 2009 Major League Baseball draft, "Baseball America" rated Barnhart as the best available player from Indiana. Due to his commitment to Georgia Tech, he fell to the 10th round, when he was chosen by the Cincinnati Reds with the 299th overall selection. Barnhart opted to sign with the Reds, rather than enroll at Georgia Tech.
In 2010, Barnhart played for the Billings Mustangs of the Rookie-level Pioneer League. In 2011, he played for the Dayton Dragons of the Class A Midwest League. He spent the 2012 season with the Bakersfield Blaze of the Class A-Advanced California League and Pensacola Blue Wahoos of the Class AA Southern League. He played for Pensacola in 2013, and was named a Southern League All-Star.

The Reds added Barnhart to their 40-man roster on November 20, 2013. With Devin Mesoraco beginning the 2014 season on the disabled list, Barnhart made the Reds' 2014 Opening Day roster, as a backup to Brayan Peña. Barnhart made his major league debut on April 3 against the St. Louis Cardinals. Starting at catcher (with Homer Bailey the starting pitcher) and batting eighth, he went 0-for-4 with one strikeout. Two days later, he got his first big-league hit, a single off New York Mets pitcher Dillon Gee; for the game, Barnhart went 2-for-4.

Barnhart was optioned to the Louisville Bats of the Class AAA International League on April 7, when Mesoraco was activated. He was later recalled by the Reds, and on May 1, he hit his first major league home run, a fifth-inning solo shot off the Milwaukee Brewers' Marco Estrada. He was optioned back to Louisville on May 18. On July 6, with Peña on the paternity list and also forced to play more at first base due to injuries, the Reds recalled Barnhart. Barnhart was optioned back to Louisville on July 11.

Due to injuries to Mesoraco, Barnhart started 67 games at catcher for the Reds in 2015 and 108 games in 2016. On September 22, 2017, Barnhart signed a four-year contract extension with the Reds, worth $16 million, plus a $7.5 million club option for the 2022 season. He led National League catchers in wins above replacement and caught stealing percentage. He also led the major leagues in runner caught stealing (32). After the 2017 season, he won the Rawlings Gold Glove Award.

In 2019 he suffered an abdominal and oblique strain, and was placed on the injured list.

Barnhart and his wife, Sierra, married in November 2015. They welcomed their first child, a son named Tatum, in September 2017. 

He grew up just west of Indianapolis and now resides just south of Indianapolis in the city of Bargersville. He is a childhood friend of Boston Celtics small forward Gordon Hayward and Kansas City Royals relief pitcher Drew Storen.


</doc>
<doc id="41073335" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073335" title="Ranney">
Ranney

Ranney may refer to:





</doc>
<doc id="41073363" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073363" title="Ishgah, Rudboneh">
Ishgah, Rudboneh

Ishgah (, also Romanized as Īshgāh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 535, in 165 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073366" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073366" title="Akbarabad, Lahijan">
Akbarabad, Lahijan

Akbarabad (, also Romanized as Akbarābād) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 691, in 225 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073368" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073368" title="Charuq Duz Mahalleh">
Charuq Duz Mahalleh

Charuq Duz Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Chārūq Dūz Maḩalleh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 166, in 57 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073370" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073370" title="Damuchal">
Damuchal

Damuchal (, also Romanized as Dāmūchāl; also known as Damchāl) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 261, in 82 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073371" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073371" title="Hajj Salim Mahalleh">
Hajj Salim Mahalleh

Hajj Salim Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Ḩājj Salīm Maḩalleh; also known as Ḩājjī Salīm Maḩalleh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 918, in 281 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073372" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073372" title="Yusef Deh">
Yusef Deh

Yusef Deh (, also Romanized as Yūsef Deh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 263, in 81 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073373" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073373" title="Kohneh Rudposht">
Kohneh Rudposht

Kohneh Rudposht (, also Romanized as Kohneh Rūdposht) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 381, in 131 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073375" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073375" title="Kanaf Gurab">
Kanaf Gurab

Kanaf Gurab (, also Romanized as Kanaf Gūrāb, Kanaf Goorab, and Kanefgurāb) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 141, in 41 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073376" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073376" title="Lakmeh Sar">
Lakmeh Sar

Lakmeh Sar (, also Romanized as Lākmeh Sar) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 564, in 172 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073378" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073378" title="Lashidan-e Motlaq">
Lashidan-e Motlaq

Lashidan-e Motlaq (, also Romanized as Lāshīdān-e Moţlaq) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,647, in 734 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073379" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073379" title="2013–14 Saudi First Division">
2013–14 Saudi First Division

The RAKAA Professional League is the First Division in Saudi Arabia.

In the end of the Season 2012–13 the league was called "Saudi First Division", but the league name has been renamed to "RAKAA Professional League " and the name stands for a Holding provider called RAKAA which is now become an official sponsor of the First Division.



</doc>
<doc id="41073382" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073382" title="Zenos Ramsey Miller">
Zenos Ramsey Miller

Zenos Ramsey Miller (13 September 1895-22 July 1922) was an American pursuit pilot and a flying ace in World War I.

Born in Pao Ting Fu, China, Miller joined the Air Service, United States Army in 1917 during World War I. After pilot training in the United States, Lieutenant Miller was assigned to the 27th Aero Squadron, 1st Pursuit Group, First Army Air Service on 24 November 1917. Scoring his first two victories on the afternoon and evening of 16 July 1918, Miller shot down an enemy balloon over Gland and later forced down a second balloon while dogfighting three Fokkers. He scored a third victory shooting down a Fokker D.VII on 19 July.

During his tour of duty, he had the bad luck to decapitate a French worker who had been cutting the grass at Toul (Gengault Aerodrome) when he flew in to land after one patrol, and after another he accidentally set fire to his own aircraft which was destroyed along with the canvas hangar it was in.

On 20 July 1918, he took off on a combat patrol he shot down two enemy aircraft, becoming his total to five, and becoming an air ace. However, the flight ran into severe weather which caused three SPAD S.XIIIs to crash inside enemy territory. Two of the pilots were killed, however Lt. Miller survived but was made a Prisoner of War (POW). Upon returning from the POW camp his report of the last flight was confirmed.

After the war he was demobilized he entered Princeton University and became a doctor. In 1921, he purchased an old Savoia-Marchetti plane and attempted a transcontinental flight. On 22 July 1922, shortly before he began the flight, the aircraft went into a spin near Framingham, Massachusetts, killing Miller.



</doc>
<doc id="41073383" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073383" title="Ishgah">
Ishgah

Ishgah () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41073384" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073384" title="Polylux">
Polylux

Polylux may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41073406" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073406" title="Lashidan">
Lashidan

Lashidan () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41073431" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073431" title="Christopher B. Krebs">
Christopher B. Krebs

Christopher B. Krebs is an Associate Professor of Classics at Stanford University. Krebs' principal research interests are Greek and Roman Historiography, Latin Lexicography and the Classical tradition.

Christopher B. Krebs studied classics and philosophy at Berlin, Oxford (M. St. 2002) and Kiel (1st "Staatsexamen" 2000, Ph. D. 2003). He was a lecturer at University College, Oxford before being appointed as Assistant Professor of Classics at Harvard in 2004. While Assistant Professor at Harvard, he was Professeur Invité at the "École Normale Supérieure" in Paris in 2007 and the APA fellow at the "Thesaurus Linguae Latinae" in Munich in 2008/09. In 2009 he was appointed Associate Professor of Classics at Harvard before becoming Associate Professor of Classics at Stanford in 2012.

Krebs has written two academic monographs on the reception of Tacitus' Germania; the first, "Negotiatio Germaniae: Tacitus’ Germania und Enea Silvio Piccolomini, Giannantonio Campano, Conrad Celtis und Heinrich Bebelm", appeared in 2005 while the second, "A Most Dangerous Book: Tacitus’s Germania from the Roman Empire to the Third Reich", was published in 2011, has been translated into seven languages (including German, Spanish and Chinese) and won the Phi Beta Kappa Society's Christian Gauss Award. In addition, he is co-editor of "Time and Narrative in Ancient Historiography: The ‘Plupast’ from Herodotus to Appian", published in 2012, a contributor to the "Thesaurus Linguae Latinae" and "Der Neue Pauly", and the author of over 20 journal articles. He is currently working on a variety of projects which include studies of Caesar, Latin Historiography, Posidonius and Annio di Viterbo.

He has also taught the Stanford Humanities Institute summer course on Rome, which discusses renowned Roman leaders and orators such as Tacitus.




</doc>
<doc id="41073456" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073456" title="Lisa Brummel">
Lisa Brummel

Lisa E. Brummel (born 1959/1960) is an American businesswoman who served as Executive Vice President of Human Resources for Microsoft until her retirement on December 31, 2014. She previously served as corporate vice president of the company's Home & Retail Division.

Brummel was raised in Connecticut. She earned a bachelor's degree in sociology from Yale University in 1981, followed by a master's degree in business administration from the University of California, Los Angeles. She joined Microsoft in 1989.

She is a co-owner of the Seattle Storm, a professional women's basketball team in the WNBA.


</doc>
<doc id="41073469" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073469" title="Chasse-marée (disambiguation)">
Chasse-marée (disambiguation)

Chasse-marée may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41073499" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073499" title="Independence or Death (painting)">
Independence or Death (painting)

The 1888 painting Independence or Death (Independência ou Morte in Portuguese), also known as the Cry of Ipiranga (Grito do Ipiranga in the original), is the main artwork representing the proclamation of Brazilian independence.

The artist Pedro Américo finished the painting in 1888 in Florence, Italy, 66 years after the proclamation of independence. The Brazilian imperial house commissioned the work, due to investments into the construction of the Museu do Ipiranga (presently the Museu Paulista). The goal of the artwork was to emphasize the monarchy.

There exists evidence that the painting is not an accurate description of the events on the shores of the Ipiranga Brook.


</doc>
<doc id="41073535" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073535" title="List of doping cases in sport (E)">
List of doping cases in sport (E)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "E".


</doc>
<doc id="41073555" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073555" title="Viva Tour (album)">
Viva Tour (album)

Viva Tour (En Vivo) is the second live album by Mexican recording artist Thalía. It was released on November 12, 2013 by Sony Music Mexico in Mexico and was released in the United States on December 1, 2013 by Sony Music Latin and later on globally by Sony Music Entertainment. The album was released as a full concert on the following formats : CD + DVD, DVD and Blu-ray Disc. The DVD format includes also a behind-the-scenes documentary about Thalia's preparation for the tour. The concert was recorded on April 26 and 27, 2013 at the National Auditorium of Mexico City, during the tour's last concerts.




</doc>
<doc id="41073557" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073557" title="Protomycetaceae">
Protomycetaceae

The Protomycetaceae are a family of fungi in the order Taphrinales. According to a 2008 estimate, the family contains 6 genera and 22 species.


</doc>
<doc id="41073558" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073558" title="Taphrinaceae">
Taphrinaceae

The Taphrinaceae are a family of fungi in the order Taphrinales. According to a 2008 estimate, the family contains 2 genera and 118 species.


</doc>
<doc id="41073573" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073573" title="Rupert Cornwell">
Rupert Cornwell

Rupert Cornwell (22 February 1946 – 31 March 2017) was a British journalist connected with "The Independent" newspaper for thirty years.

Born to Ronnie Cornwell and Jeanie Gronow in 1946,

He read Greek at Magdalen College, Oxford.

Cornwell worked in advertising following graduation. He began his journalism career with Reuters in 1968. Cornwell was sent to the Brussels branch office, where he met his first wife, interpreter Angela Doria. They moved to Paris, where Cornwell joined the "Financial Times" as a foreign correspondent. From France, Cornwell and Doria moved to Rome, and Bonn. The couple separated and Cornwell was then the first Moscow correspondent of "The Independent", from its launch in 1986. During this time, he won two British Press Awards. Later in his career, Cornwell served as the Chief US Commentator at "The Independent" newspaper.

His book "God's Banker", about Roberto Calvi, an Italian banker found hanging from Blackfriars Bridge, was published in 1983.

He was the half-brother of John le Carré. Charlotte, his sister, is an actress.

In 1988, he married Susan Smith, whom he had met while in Bonn.

Rupert Cornwell died, aged 71, on 31 March 2017 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington D.C. from cancer.



</doc>
<doc id="41073582" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073582" title="Bruce Ennis">
Bruce Ennis

Bruce C. Ennis (born March 25, 1939) is an American politician and a Democratic member of the Delaware Senate since 2007 representing District 14. Ennis previously served in the Delaware House of Representatives from 1983 to 2007. He is a retired member of the Delaware State Police.




</doc>
<doc id="41073591" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073591" title="Bowling (solitaire)">
Bowling (solitaire)

Bowling is a solitaire game using one deck of playing cards, designed by Warren Schwader and featured in the 1988 computer game "Hoyle: Official Book of Games Vol 2: Solitaire" by Sierra Online. The object of the game is to try to fill as many Pins as possible for each of the ten frames. (This is not the similarly-named Bowling Solitaire game designed by Sid Sackson and described in his book "A Gamut of Games").

Bowling has ten Pin Piles. The Deck is located at the right and turns up one card at a time. There are two Ball Piles located below the Deck. The two Ball Piles can contain up to three cards each. The scoring frame is located either above or below the gameplay.

To begin playing, turn up one card at a time. The card turned up must be planted on one of the Pin Piles, or placed onto one of the Ball Piles. All the Pin Piles should be filled in order from lowest ranking cards (towards the bottom) to the highest ranking cards (towards the top right). There are only ten Pins, but there are thirteen ranks of cards. The difficult part of this game is anticipating what ranks will not be drawn from the Deck. 

Here is an example of a possible arrangement:

Only a ten or a Jack can be placed onto the empty Pin between the nine and Queen. Only a six can fill the empty space between the five and seven. Place multiple cards of the same rank into the same piles. If a three or an eight is drawn, they must be put in the Ball Pile because it cannot be placed with the Pins. Bowling solitaire is scored the same way regular Bowling is scored.. To get a Strike, fill all the Pins before placing a card in the Ball Pile. To receive a Spare, fill all Pins before placing cards into the second Ball Pile. Otherwise, Points are scored by the amount of spaces filled before both Ball Piles are filled. After both Ball Piles have been filled with three cards each, that round of the game will end. The game consists of ten rounds.




</doc>
<doc id="41073607" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073607" title="Rajneesh (disambiguation)">
Rajneesh (disambiguation)

Rajneesh (1931–1990) was an Indian mystic and guru with an international following. Rajneesh or Rajnish may also refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="41073637" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073637" title="Bill Armstrong (photographer)">
Bill Armstrong (photographer)

Bill Armstrong is a New York based fine art photographer who is known for his blurred color photographs. He grew up in Concord, Massachusetts.

Bill Armstrong is a New York based fine art photographer who has been shooting in color for over thirty years. His Mandala series was featured in a two-person exhibition at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 2008, and he had a mid career retrospective at the Southeast Museum of Photography in Daytona Beach in 2010. Armstrong’s work is in many museum collections including the Victoria & Albert Museum, Philadelphia Museum of Art, Brooklyn Museum, Houston Museum of Fine Arts, Santa Barbara Museum of Art, and the Bibliothèque nationale de France. He has presented work in numerous museum exhibitions including: the Smithsonian Institution; Hayward Gallery, London; Musee de l’Elysee, Lausanne; Centro Internazionale di Fotografia, Milan; and FOAM, Amsterdam.
One of Armstrong’s images was chosen for the cover of Lyle Rexer’s Aperture book, The Edge of Vision: The Rise of Abstraction in Photography. His work appears in Face: The New Photographic Portrait by William Ewing and Exploring Color Photography, by Robert Hirsch, among other books. He has also been published in numerous periodicals including The New Yorker, The New York Times, Harper’s, House and Garden and Eyemazing.

He is on the faculty at the International Center of Photography and the School of Visual Arts.



</doc>
<doc id="41073643" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073643" title="Hus' House (Vršovice)">
Hus' House (Vršovice)

The Hus' House or Husův sbor is a Hussite church in the Vršovice area of Prague. This building was one of the first buildings in Prague built from pre-stressed concrete and brick panels. It was built in less than a year and includes a "lighthouse" tower topped with a cross.

The Hus' House was built in 1930 using the novel material of pre-stressed concrete. The beginning of that build began with the formation of a committee in 1921 to create this church. The land for the building had previously been used for a coaching inn and a blacksmith. The emerging local Hussite group received national recognition in 1923 and their work led to the appointment of Karel Truksta. Truksta was an architect trained in Prague and it was his role to not only make the design but also the specification for builders to quote for the work.
An unusual foundation stone was laid on 29 September 1929, as the stone had an association with the church reformer Jan Hus who had been burnt for his beliefs in 1415. The stone came from "Kozí Hrádek" castle near Sezimovo Ústí where Hus had preached of his ideas that led to the formation of the Hussite Church. The main contractor was the builder Václav Nekvasil who was told in March 1930 that they needed to complete the build that year. This was achieved on 21 December when the opening was celebrated.

The design included a theatre that seated almost 300 people with space for an orchestra, dressing rooms and make-up and offices. Other activities in the building include a film club, lectures and other cultural activities. The theatre brings in an income and the multi-function building also included accommodation for pensioners and part of the space is let to the branch of a bank. This income pays for maintaining the building and its columbarium as well as contributing to the wider aims of the church.

An Alois Jirásek Theatre was based here although Jirásek had died in 1930. The theatre group was so successful that they credit the closing of the nearby theatre in Vinohrady to their success. The company became known for plays and for opera. The theatre closed in the 1960s due to pressures from the communist authorities who were unhappy with a religious body being involved with a theatre. There have been attempts to relaunch the theatre but the city have said that a prospective company would need to find external funding.

The design of the tower was a collaboration with Pavel Janák who designed the other nearby Hussite church in Vinohrady. It is topped at by a goblet which is a key symbol of the Hussite church as well as a cross. There is an extended floor near the top of the tower which is surrounded by the four large glass panels. The design for the tower has four tall thin shuttered windows. The tower was intended to be seen as a "ship's lantern" which symbolises a "lighthouse" pointing the way to eternity.


</doc>
<doc id="41073646" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073646" title="Dom Otdykha">
Dom Otdykha

Dom Otdykha () is the name of several rural localities in Russia.



</doc>
<doc id="41073647" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073647" title="America ReFramed">
America ReFramed

America ReFramed is a weekly independent documentary series broadcast on World Channel. Since 2012, America ReFramed has broadcast over 120 films by independent filmmakers. The series is co-produced by American Documentary, Inc. and the WORLD Channel. America ReFramed films feature personal stories that have a strong social-issue focus.

America ReFramed broadcasts have won several awards including a Peabody Award and Alfred I. duPont-Columbia University Award for broadcast journalism. The series has earned several Christopher, GRACIE, Telly and Cine Golden Eagle Awards, as well as nominations for EMMY, Independent Documentary Association, and Imagen awards.



</doc>
<doc id="41073648" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073648" title="Jacques Mistral">
Jacques Mistral

Jacques Mistral (born September 22, 1947) is a French economist and professor. He is a member of the Council of Economic Analysis ("Conseil d'analyse économique") in France, a member of the Cercle des économistes, and as of October 2009, a member of the scientific council of the center-left think tank "Fondation pour l'innovation politique".

Mistral was born in Toulouse, France. He graduated from the École Polytechnique in Paris in 1967 and earned his Ph.D in Economics from the University of Paris I in 1977.

Mistral has held several professorships: from 1978 to 1992, he was a professor of Economics at Université Paris-Nord; from 1974 to 1992, at ENSAE; from 1984 to 1994, at the École Polytechnique; and from 1982 to 1996, at Sciences Po.

He also held several posts as an economic advisor. From 1988 to 1992, he was an economic advisor for the then-Prime Minister, Michel Rocard; from 2000 to 2001, he was a special advisor of political economy and international relations for the Minister of Economics, Finances, and Industry, Laurent Fabius. He held several executive positions as a member of the AXA Group, including central director and director of human resources in France. He was also a senior fellow at the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University from 2005-2006.

Mistral was president of the Société d'économie politique from 2008 to 2012.
Currently, Mistral is the head of economic research at the French Institute for International Relations ("Institut Français des Relations Internationales"), a member of the Council for Economic Analysis ("Conseil d’Analyse Économique") for the Prime Minister, and a nonresident senior fellow in Global Economy and Development at the Brookings Institution.

His economic interests are international economics, the international monetary system, the eurozone crisis, and the relationship between the United States, China, and the EU.

In the French presidential election of 2012, Mistral endorsed Socialist Party candidate and eventual winner François Hollande.


</doc>
<doc id="41073668" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073668" title="Carlos Noguera">
Carlos Noguera

Carlos Noguera (28 October 1943 – 3 February 2015) was a Venezuelan writer and psychologist.

He graduated from the Central University of Venezuela, was the president of Monte Ávila Editores (Publishers) between 2003 until his death. He has written as much poetry as stories, and is the winner of various prizes, such as the National Prize for Literature in 2003, and the National Fiction Award from the National Council of Culture (CONAC) in 1994. His works have been translated into 3 languages, and he has also written essays about psychology. His novels include "Historias de la calle Lincoln" (1971), "Juegos bajo la Luna" (1994), which was made into a movie in 2000 by the Mexican film director Mauricio Walerstein, and "La flor escrita" (2003). He was the editor-in-chief of the "Revista Nacional de Cultura" (the National Culture Magazine).





</doc>
<doc id="41073709" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073709" title="Chunnakam market massacre">
Chunnakam market massacre

The Chunnakam market massacre was a massacre of Sri Lankan Tamil civilians by the Sri Lankan military in Chunnakam, a suburb of Jaffna in the Northern Province, Sri Lanka in 1984. This was the second such massacre carried out in the town, during the same year after 20 Tamil youth were massacred by the Sri Lankan military at the local Police station just two months earlier.

The Chunnakam market, one of the busiest in the island's north is situated 7 km from Jaffna town on the Kankesanturai road. This is a central market, where agricultural produce grown in the districts of Jaffna, Kilinochchi etc. would be brought for sale. 

On 28 March 1984, personnel belonging to the Sri Lankan military arrived at the market and the town's bus stop in tanks and jeeps and opened fire at the crowd in both these places. Eight civilians were shot dead, and over 50 were injured. The military then proceeded to set fire to the market and burnt down all of the shops contained within it.

The military then left the location, and drove through Mallakam and Tellipalai along the Kankesanturai road. Here, they started shooting at everyone, who came within their sight. At least one civilian was killed, and female students in Tellipalai, who were returning home from school after completing their examinations were assaulted. Consequently, 26 students were injured. And another than 20 civilians belonging to these two villages were also injured.


</doc>
<doc id="41073714" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073714" title="Rovello bianco">
Rovello bianco

Rovello bianco or Greco Muscio is a white Italian wine grape variety that is grown in the Campania region of southern Italy. While the grape has been described in wine literature since 1875, the variety was on the verge of extinction until a collaboration by the University of Naples Federico II and University of Palermo along with a local wine grower in Taurasi help revive the variety with new plantings in 2003.

Rovello bianco was first described growing in the Campanian province of Avellino in 1875 where it was locally known as "Greco Muscio". Despite the similarities in synonyms, DNA profiling in the early 21st century has shown that Rovello bianco has no known genetic relationship with the either the white or dark berried Greco grapes or any of the other Italian varieties (such as Maceratino, Grechetto, Pignoletto, Fortana and Erbaluce) that share Greco as a synonym.

Like many Italian varieties, the phylloxera epidemic of the late 19th century followed by the political and economic turmoil of the 20th century World Wars saw a dramatic decrease in plantings that almost lead to the variety's extinction. But a collaboration between the Universities of Palermo and Naples Federico II along with the help of a local Taurasi wine grower lead to new plantings of Rovello bianco in 2003.

Rovello bianco is found almost exclusively in the province of Avellino in Campania. In the communes of Taurasi, Bonito and Mirabella Eclano centenarian old vine plantings of the variety still exist and are used in commercial wine production.

According to Master of Wine Jancis Robinson, varietal examples of Rovello bianco (also known as "Grecomusc") tend to have high levels of acidity with aroma notes of green citrus fruit and ash.

Over the years, Rovello bianco has been known under a variety of synonyms including: Roviello, Rovello, Greco Muscio and Grecomusc.


</doc>
<doc id="41073752" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073752" title="Viktor Ryashko (footballer)">
Viktor Ryashko (footballer)

Viktor Ryashko (; born 27 November 1992) is a Ukrainian football midfielder who played for FC Bukovyna Chernivtsi in the Ukrainian Second League.

Ryashko spent some years in the Sportive Youth system in Uzhhorod. He made his debut in the Ukrainian Premier League in a match against FC Vorskla Poltava entraining in the second half-time on 26 May 2013.

He is the son of Ukrainian football manager Viktor Ryashko and older brother of the footballer Mykhaylo Ryashko.



</doc>
<doc id="41073769" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073769" title="Sena Jeter Naslund">
Sena Jeter Naslund

Sena Jeter Naslund (born June 28, 1942) is an American writer. She has published seven novels and two collections of short fiction. Her 1999 novel, "Ahab's Wife", and her 2003 novel, "Four Spirits", were each named a "New York Times" Notable Book of the Year. She is the Writer in Residence at University of Louisville and the Program Director for the MFA in Writing at Spalding University. In 2005, Governor Ernie Fletcher named Naslund Poet Laureate of Kentucky.

Sena Kathryn Jeter was born in Birmingham, Alabama in 1942 to Marvin Luther Jeter, a physician, who died when she was 15, and Flora Lee Sims Jeter, a music teacher.

In 1964 she earned a bachelor's degree from Birmingham-Southern College. She completed her Master of Arts and PhD at the Iowa Writer's Workshop at the University of Iowa.

Thematically, much of Naslund's work explores women who are "marginalized or misunderstood." In the bestselling "Ahab's Wife", for instance, Stacey D'Erasmo suggests "Naslund has taken less than a paragraph's worth of references to the captain's young wife from Herman Melville's "Moby-Dick" and fashioned from this slender rib not only a woman but an entire world. That world is a looking-glass version of Melville's fictional seafaring one, ruled by compassion as the other is by obsession, with a heroine who is as much a believer in social justice as the famous hero is in vengeance."

She lives in Louisville, Kentucky, at St. James Court, in the former home of Kentucky poet Madison Cawein.





</doc>
<doc id="41073771" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073771" title="Elevation Burger">
Elevation Burger

Elevation Burger is an American fast casual restaurant chain that specializes in organic hamburgers. The company originated in Falls Church, Virginia, within the Washington Metropolitan Area. They have over 50 locations operating in the United States, México, Bahrain, Kuwait, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates.

The initial idea of an organic fast casual restaurant was conceived in 2002 by founder and owner Hans Hess. He opened the first restaurant in September 2005, in Falls Church, Virginia, and was called "the first organic burger joint" by Saveur magazine. The meat for non-vegetarian burgers is USDA-certified organic, grass fed, free range beef.

In Spring 2008, Elevation Burger decided to expand from its original location through franchising with the help of Fransmart the company behind the franchise success of a competitor.
Subsequently, they announced franchising deals for new restaurants in the Washington Metropolitan Area (April 2008), Baltimore, Maryland (September 2008), Austin, Texas (October 2008), Montclair, New Jersey (November 2008), Florida (March 2009), Philadelphia, Pennsylvania (May 2009), New York City (May 2009), Dallas, Texas (June 2009). The Austin & Dallas stores are closed and now the lone Texas store is in Houston, the only one in the Central Time Zone.

Elevation Burger’s corporate parent and founder appeared in a June 2009 Wall Street Journal article as one of the companies recently targeted by fake Twitter profiles. The respective Twitter profile, created in the name of Elevation Burger but promoting a rival, was discovered in March 2009, then suspended after a letter from Hess's lawyer.

On June 20, 2019, Nations Restaurant News reported that Elevation was acquired by Fat Brands for $10 million.

The buildings of the Elevation Burger chain typically pursue LEED certification regulated by United States Green Building Council. Because of the commitment required, this step is uncommon in the fast-casual restaurant business. The building is green-friendly with renewable and non-polluting materials and surfaces, like bamboo flooring, compressed sorghum tabletops, acoustic ceiling tiles and bead board made of recycled and recyclable material.

Elevation Burger was named as one of fast rising casual restaurant chains, catering to health-conscious clients. Its restaurants were praised for the quality of their food and they were included among the local attractions and best restaurants of Washington D.C., Baltimore, and other cities.



</doc>
<doc id="41073784" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073784" title="Viktor Ryashko">
Viktor Ryashko

Viktor Ryashko may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41073785" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073785" title="Dino Gifford">
Dino Gifford

Dino Gifford (6 January 1917 – 5 November 2013) was an Italian professional footballer who played as a midfielder for Viareggio, Livorno, Modena, Molinella, Le Signe and L'Aquila Calcio.


</doc>
<doc id="41073893" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073893" title="Puk Scharbau">
Puk Scharbau

Puk Scharbau (born 6 May 1969 in Søborg, Gladsaxe Municipality) is a Danish actress.

Scharbau graduated from the Acting course at Odense Theatre in May 1993. Later, she earned a degree in media and rhetoric.
In the summers of 1991-1993, she studied the Suzuki method for acting from Japanese director Tadashi Suzuki and was certified to teach the method.

She debuted in "The Medium" in Japan in 1993, and as Vulva in "After Orgy" at Odense Theatre.
Since then she has performed at such House Theatre, Café Theatre, Edison, Betty Nansen Theatre and Nørrebro Theatre.

Her film career began in 1995 with the lead role in the film version of Lise Nørgaard's memories, "Only A Girl", which also became her popular breakthrough. The role earned her both a Bodil Award for Best Actress and a Robert Award for female lead.

In 1998 Scharbau appeared in the cyberpunk thriller "Skyggen" AKA "Webmaster" with Lars Bom. She played the role of Miauv. Later, she said about the role; "there is a smell of messy apartment and uncleaned litter box above Miauv".

In 2002, Scharbau started the consulting firm Actors Inc., working as a communications consultant.

She played the part of Mette, the wife of Martin Rohde, in the TV series The Bridge.


</doc>
<doc id="41073897" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073897" title="Mehdiabad, Gilan">
Mehdiabad, Gilan

Mehdiabad (, also Romanized as Mehdīābād; also known as Mehdīābād-e Sheykh ‘Alī Kelāyeh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 662, in 186 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073899" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073899" title="Mian Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh">
Mian Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh

Mian Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh (, also Romanized as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Rūdbaneh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 105, in 28 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073900" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073900" title="Pain Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh">
Pain Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh

Pain Mahalleh-ye Rudbaneh (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Maḩalleh-ye Rūdbaneh; also known as Pā’īn Rūd Beneh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 415, in 120 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073901" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073901" title="Pahmadan">
Pahmadan

Pahmadan (, also Romanized as Pahmadān; also known as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Pahmadān) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,745, in 474 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073902" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073902" title="Raiyyat Mahalleh">
Raiyyat Mahalleh

Raiyyat Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Ra‘īyyat Maḩalleh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 321, in 87 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073903" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073903" title="Norwegian Graphical Union">
Norwegian Graphical Union

The Norwegian Graphical Union (Norsk Grafisk Forbund) was established in 1967 as an amalgamation of The Norwegian Typographic Union (Norsk Typografforbund) (Est. 1882), The Norwegian Bookbinders- and Packaging Workers Union (Norsk Bokbinder- og Kartonasjearbeiderforbund) (Est. 1898) and The Norwegian Litographers- and Block makers Union (Norsk Litograf- og Kjemigrafforbund) (Est. 1901).

Joined the United Federation of Trade Unions (Fellesforbundet) in 2006.

Published the magazine Norsk Grafia 1967 - 2005.


</doc>
<doc id="41073904" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073904" title="Shad Dehsar">
Shad Dehsar

Shad Dehsar (, also Romanized as Shād Dehsar; also known as Shādehsar) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 802, in 229 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073905" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073905" title="Seda Poshteh">
Seda Poshteh

Seda Poshteh (, also Romanized as Şedā Poshteh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 447, in 151 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073907" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073907" title="Sheykh Ali Kalayeh">
Sheykh Ali Kalayeh

Sheykh Ali Kalayeh (, also Romanized as Sheykh ‘Alī Kalāyeh and Sheykh ‘Alī Kelāyeh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 410, in 125 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073911" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073911" title="Sharafshadeh">
Sharafshadeh

Sharafshadeh (, also Romanized as Sharafshādeh and Sharaf Shādeh) is a village in Rudboneh Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 419, in 150 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41073912" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073912" title="Frank Gravino">
Frank Gravino

Frank John Gravino (January 29, 1923 - April 5, 1994) was a longtime minor league baseball outfielder who played from 1940 to 1942 and from 1946 to 1954. Known as the "greatest slugger in Northern League history," he hit .292 with 271 home runs and a .583 slugging percentage in his 12-year career.

Gravino signed with the St. Louis Cardinals and began his career as a 17-year-old pitcher in 1940. Playing for the Class-D Williamson Red Birds that year, he was 10-5 with a Mountain State League-leading 133 walks (in 130 innings pitched) and a 4.57 ERA in 25 games on the mount. He hit .227 with two home runs in 39 games at the plate. The following year, with Williamson and the Class-D Batesville Pilots, he hit .218 with two home runs in 62 games. He only pitched for Batesville that season and had a 3-5 record with a 6.75 ERA in 14 games. He hit .198 with no home runs in 52 games for the Class-D Albany Cardinals in 1942, but was 13-9 with a 3.52 ERA in 28 pitching appearances. He did not play professionally from 1943 to 1945 due to World War II.

He returned to the Cardinals system in 1946 and hit .339 with 30 doubles, 15 triples, 21 home runs and a .628 slugging percentage for the Class-D Hamilton Cardinals and Class-B Allentown Cardinals. The next season, in 115 games split between the Class-C Winston-Salem Cardinals (104 games) and Class-A Omaha Royals (11 games), Gravino hit .299 with 16 home runs. He hit .277 with 18 home runs and 74 RBI for the Triple-A Rochester Red Wings in 1948 and in 1949, in a year split between the Class-A Columbus Cardinals and Omaha, he hit .273 with seven home runs in 70 games.

He left the Cardinals system following the 1949 season and played in the Panamanian Professional Baseball League that winter. He then played in unaffiliated baseball in 1950 and 1951. In 1950, he hit .252 with 18 home runs in 80 games split between the Class-C St. Jean Braves and Class-B St. Petersburg Saints, finishing second, behind Silvio Garcia, in the Provincial League in home runs. He had his first of four straight 35-plus home run seasons in 1951, hitting .289 with 42 home runs in 121 games for St. Jean. He led the Provincial League in home runs and was second in total bases (284) and slugging percentage (.627), behind Joseph Monteiro and Johnny Davis, respectively. Gravino spent most of 1952 with the unaffiliated Class-C Fargo-Moorhead Twins, but began year with the Class-B Cedar Rapids Indians in the Cleveland Indians system. Overall, he hit .280 with 37 home runs in 121 games. He led the Northern League in home runs, RBI (108) and slugging percentage (.643) and made the Northern League All-Star team that season.

With Fargo-Moorhead - now an Indians affiliate - again in 1953, Gravino hit .352 with 52 home runs, 174 RBI, 12 triples, 369 total bases and a .783 slugging percentage in 125 games. He led the Northern League in home runs (the second place finisher had 18), RBI, slugging percentage and total bases. He set league records in home runs and RBI. He placed behind Horace Greenwood in hits with 166, finished behind Santo Luberto in batting average, tied for second in games played and tied for third in triples. His hot hitting helped propel the Twins to a league pennant that season and earned him league MVP honors. Also of note, he played alongside Roger Maris in the outfield that season. He returned to the Twins in 1954 and hit .301 with a record-breaking 56 home runs, 354 total bases and a .707 slugging percentage in 135 games, again leading the Twins to a pennant. Once again, he led the Northern League in hits, slugging percentage and total bases while outnumbering the home run outputs of four entire Northern League teams that season. Despite putting up league-leading numbers in 1954, deteriorating eyesight forced him to end his career prematurely.

Overall, Gravino hit .292 with 1,144 hits, 199 doubles, 64 triples, 271 home runs and a .583 slugging percentage in 1,148 games. He hit over 20 home runs five times and exceeded the .300 batting mark thrice.

He was born in Newark, New York and died in Rochester, New York.


</doc>
<doc id="41073932" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073932" title="Boys Republic">
Boys Republic

Boys Republic is a private, all-boys school for troubled adolescents located in Chino Hills, California. It was founded in 1907 by Margaret Fowler. As an adolescent Steve McQueen was remanded there. He was known to demand razors and jeans in his contracts so that he could donate them to the school.


</doc>
<doc id="41073939" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073939" title="Don't Let Me Down (Lotta Engberg &amp; Christer Sjögren song)">
Don't Let Me Down (Lotta Engberg &amp; Christer Sjögren song)

"Don't Let Me Down" is a song written by Lars Diedricson and Lasse Holm, and performed by Lotta Engberg and Christer Sjögren at Melodifestivalen 2012, where it was performed during the 4th semifinal in Malmö. Reaching Andra chansen, it was knocked out by Thorsten Flinck's "Jag reser mig igen".

On 18 March 2012 the song was tested for Svensktoppen. entering the chart the upcoming week.

The song charted at Svensktoppen for three weeks. before being knocked out.

The song lyrics is based on media gossip about a relationship between the performers in an early 1990s dansband Sweden.


</doc>
<doc id="41073951" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073951" title="2009 Porsche Carrera Cup Germany">
2009 Porsche Carrera Cup Germany

The 2009 Porsche Carrera Cup Deutschland season was the 24th German Porsche Carrera Cup season. It began on 17 May at Hockenheim and finished on 25 October at the same circuit, after nine races. It ran as a support championship for the 2009 DTM season. Thomas Jäger won the championship with 5 points more than Jeroen Bleekemolen.

† — Drivers did not finish the race, but were classified as they completed over 90% of the race distance.



</doc>
<doc id="41073954" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073954" title="J. Belmont Woodson">
J. Belmont Woodson

Julian Belmont Woodson (January 4, 1872 – July 7, 1963) was an American Democratic politician who served as a member of the Virginia Senate, representing the state's 19th district from 1920 to 1924 and its 4th district from 1924 to 1940.



</doc>
<doc id="41073971" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073971" title="Dale Lastman">
Dale Lastman

Dale H. Lastman, C.M. (born 19 March 1957) is the current Chair of Goodmans. He is the son of former Toronto mayor Mel Lastman.

Dale H. Lastman, C.M. practices corporate, commercial and securities law with Goodmans. He serves as a director of Maple Leaf Sports & Entertainment and as an Alternate Governor for both the NHL and the NBA and a Governor of the Toronto Argonauts for the CFL. Lastman also serves as on the boards of RioCan Real Estate Investment Trust, the CAMH Foundation and Roots Ltd. In 2018 he was appointed Chair of the board of Baycrest.

In 2017, Dale was named a Member of the Order of Canada. In 2014, Dale was appointed by the Minister of National Defence as an Honorary Captain of the Royal Canadian Navy. He has also been awarded the rank of an Honorary Detective by the Toronto Police Service. Dale has been recognized among "Toronto's 50 Most Influential People" by Toronto Life Magazine. . He was honoured as one of the ICRF's 2010 "Men of Distinction" for his philanthropic efforts and contributions to the community and in 2011 and 2012, was presented with the ICRF's Chairman's Award. Dale is a Director of Canada's "Top 40 Under 40", a recipient of the Award and its "Best of the Best" Canadian Leadership Award.

Dale Lastman is an adjunct professor at Osgoode Hall Law School, where he lectures on securities law.


</doc>
<doc id="41073989" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41073989" title="House Party (Australian TV series)">
House Party (Australian TV series)

House Party was an Australian television series which aired on Melbourne station HSV-7. The series debuted 22 October 1959 and ended circa 4 August 1960. It was a daytime variety series. The weekly series aired live.

Regulars varied during the run of the series, but included host Ted Zeigler (an American), June Finlayson, Jocelyn Terry, Brenda Marshall, Jean Battersby, John d'Arcy, Beryl Wright, Judd Laine, Elinor Gordon, and Graeme Bent.

Segments in one episode included Shopping Sleuth (with Mitta Hamilton), Dressmaking (with Dorothy Bradfield), Entertainment Review (with Jean Battersby), Cookery (with Elinor Gordon), Let's Figure it Out (with Beryl Wright and Mel Cowdrey), Disc Dizzy (with John d'Arcy), "Sundowner" Story (with Roy Lyons) and Murder Tale (with Raymond Singer).


</doc>
<doc id="41074000" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074000" title="RK Miesnieki">
RK Miesnieki

RK Miesnieki is a Latvian rugby club based in Riga.



</doc>
<doc id="41074009" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074009" title="Allison Green">
Allison Green

Allison R. Green (October 28, 1911 – March 26, 2005) was a Republican politician from Michigan who served in the Michigan House of Representatives, and as its Speaker during the 72nd Legislature. He was also appointed by Governor George Romney as Michigan's state treasurer in 1965, retiring from that position in 1978 as the longest-serving treasurer in Michigan history.

Green became interested and learned about politics and state government by reading the "Michigan Manual", the biennial publication which lists information about Michigan's history, constitutions, government officials, and institutions.

Green was a member of the original Tuscola County Board of Education and served on the Board of Directors of the Kingston State Bank.


</doc>
<doc id="41074024" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074024" title="2014 IPC Athletics European Championships">
2014 IPC Athletics European Championships

The 2014 IPC Athletics European Championships was a track and field competition for athletes with a disability open to International Paralympic Committee (IPC) affiliated countries within Europe. It was held in Swansea, Wales and lasted from 18 to 23 August. The competition was staged at Swansea University Stadium. Approximately 550 athletes from 37 countries attended the games.

Russia won the Games atop the medal table with 41 Gold medals, and also collected the greatest overall medal haul with 88. The host nation, Britain, finished third. Of the 37 competing nations, 34 managed to achieve a podium finish. There were seven world records set and a further seven European records, in a games that was beset by difficult weather conditions throughout the tournament.

The venue for the Championships was the Swansea University athletics stadium.

The 2014 IPC Athletics European Championships is an invitational tournament taking in track and field events. No combined sports were included in the 2014 Championships. Not all events were open to all classifications, though no events were contested between classifications.

Athletes finishing in first place are awarded the gold medal, second place the silver medal and third place the bronze. If only three competitors are available to challenge for an event then no bronze medal is awarded. Some events will be classed as 'no medal' events.

As with the 2013 IPC Athletics World Championships, the IPC produced live streaming footage of the Championships on ParalympicSport.TV. In the United Kingdom Channel 4 continued their commitment to para-sport with their own live streaming website and daily live coverage shown on their sister channel More4.

The Championship opening ceremony took place at the Swansea University Stadium on the night of 18 August the day before the first events were held. The competition was officially opened by Welsh Assembly Minister John Griffiths followed by an address by the IPC president Sir Philip Craven.

The IPC flag carried into the stadium by schoolgirl Molly Hopkins, the youngest Swansea 2014 ambassador, Paralympian champion John Harris, swimmer Jack Thomas and games volunteer Harmony Dumay; before it was raised to signal the opening of the games. The swearing of the oaths were undertaken by Welsh athlete Josie Pearson, her coach Anthony Hughes, and on behalf of the officials by Matt Witt.

Entertainment was provided at the venue by singers Shaheen Jafargholi and John Adams; and the Morriston Orpheus Choir.

To ensure competition is as fair and balanced as possible, athletes are classified dependent on how their disability impacts on their chosen event/s. Thus athletes may compete in an event against competitors with a different disability to themselves. Where there are more than one classification in one event, (for example discus throw F54/55/56), a points system is used to determine the winner.


The end medal table after day 5, showing all medal winning countries.
Many competitors won multiple medals at the 2014 Championships. The following athletes won four gold medals or more.

Below is the list of countries who agreed to participate in the Championships and the requested number of athlete places for each.



</doc>
<doc id="41074028" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074028" title="Eyvan Estakhr">
Eyvan Estakhr

Eyvan Estakhr (, also Romanized as Eyvān Estakhr) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 441, in 130 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074030" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074030" title="Amirabad, Gilan">
Amirabad, Gilan

Amirabad (, also Romanized as Amīrābād) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 391, in 116 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074031" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074031" title="Arbastan">
Arbastan

Arbastan (, also Romanized as Arbāstān) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 778, in 211 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074032" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074032" title="Arbu Kolayeh">
Arbu Kolayeh

Arbu Kolayeh (, also Romanized as Ārbū Kolāyeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 106, in 29 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074033" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074033" title="Bala Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh">
Bala Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh

Bala Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh (, also Romanized as Bālā Maḩalleh-ye Nāşer Kīādeh; also known as Nāşer Kīādeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,019, in 314 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074036" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074036" title="Bala Rudposht">
Bala Rudposht

Bala Rudposht (, also Romanized as Bālā Rūdposht) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,214, in 363 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074037" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074037" title="Barku Sara">
Barku Sara

Barku Sara (, also Romanized as Bārkū Sarā; also known as Bargū Sarā and Bārgū Sarā) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,645, in 478 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074039" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074039" title="Beyn Kalayeh">
Beyn Kalayeh

Beyn Kalayeh (, also Romanized as Beyn Kalāyeh, Bin Kalayeh, and Bīn Kelāyeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 883, in 259 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074041" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074041" title="Deh Baneh, Lahijan">
Deh Baneh, Lahijan

Deh Baneh () is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 287, in 92 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074042" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074042" title="Fashu Poshteh">
Fashu Poshteh

Fashu Poshteh (, also Romanized as Fashū Poshteh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 233, in 75 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074043" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074043" title="Gaviyeh">
Gaviyeh

Gaviyeh (, also Romanized as Gāvīyeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 775, in 235 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074044" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074044" title="Jir Bagh">
Jir Bagh

Jir Bagh (, also Romanized as Jīr Bāgh; also known as Jīreh Bāgh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 363, in 101 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074046" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074046" title="Hasan Bekandeh">
Hasan Bekandeh

Hasan Bekandeh (, also Romanized as Ḩasan Bekandeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. In 2006, its population was 639, in 183 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074047" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074047" title="Hasan Ali Deh">
Hasan Ali Deh

Hasan Ali Deh (, also Romanized as Ḩasan ‘Alī Deh; also known as Ḩasan ‘Alī Deh-e Bālā and Ḩasan ‘Alī Deh-e Bālā Maḩalleh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 750, in 248 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074048" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074048" title="Kachelam">
Kachelam

Kachelam (, also Romanized as Kachelām) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 693, in 227 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074049" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074049" title="Kurandeh">
Kurandeh

Kurandeh (, also Romanized as Kūrandeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,009, in 313 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074050" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074050" title="Juan Beroes">
Juan Beroes

Juan Beroes (September 24, 1914 – August 3, 1975) was a Venezuelan poet.

He was born on September 24, 1914, in San Cristóbal, Táchira, Venezuela. He gained a political Science degree from the Central University of Venezuela in 1940. He contributed articles to the newspapers "El Nacional" (Caracas) since 1945, "El Tiempo" (Bogotá) between 1946-1947, and to the "Revista Nacional de Cultura" of Caracas (the National Culture Magazine). He served as a diplomat and cultural attache at the Venezuelan embassies in Colombia, Ecuador and Italy.

He represented Venezuela at the Third Biennial International Poetry Contest in Knokke-Zoute (Belgium). In 1947, he won the Municipal Poetry Prize with his work "Prisión Terrena" (Earthly Prison). In 1948, he won the literary prize of the magazine "Contrapunto" and in 1957 he was awarded the National Prize for Literature for his work "Materia de Eternidad" (Matter of Eternity).


</doc>
<doc id="41074051" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074051" title="Mian Mahalleh-ye Chaf Gavieh">
Mian Mahalleh-ye Chaf Gavieh

Mian Mahalleh-ye Chaf Gavieh (, also Romanized as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Chāf Gāvīeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 127, in 41 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074054" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074054" title="Mir Daryasar">
Mir Daryasar

Mir Daryasar (, also Romanized as Mīr Daryāsar) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 221, in 71 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074056" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074056" title="Motaalleq Mahalleh-ye Arbastan">
Motaalleq Mahalleh-ye Arbastan

Motaalleq Mahalleh-ye Arbastan (, also Romanized as Mota‘alleq Maḩalleh-ye Ārbāstān; also known as Mota‘alleq Maḩalleh-ye Langerūd) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 72, in 25 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074058" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074058" title="Naser Kiadeh-ye Mian Mahalleh">
Naser Kiadeh-ye Mian Mahalleh

Naser Kiadeh-ye Mian Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Nāşer Kīādeh-ye Mīān Maḩalleh; also known as Mīān Maḩalleh-ye Nāşer Kīādeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 226, in 68 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074062" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074062" title="Nowshar, Lahijan">
Nowshar, Lahijan

Nowshar () is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 552, in 175 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074072" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074072" title="Raleigh Entrepreneurial Acceleration Lab">
Raleigh Entrepreneurial Acceleration Lab

Raleigh's Entrepreneurial Acceleration Lab (REAL) is a non-profit business incubator co-founded by Blake Callens and Josh Anderson in 2013. REAL offers startup companies mentoring, hosting, and working space for free. REAL only supports two sponsored companies at a time and does not take equity from the companies for these services.

In October 2013, REAL was awarded a partnership with Amazon's AWS Activate program to offer its sponsored companies free hosting credits, training, and support on Amazon's AWS platform.

Sweeps.jobs is the first company to be accepted into REAL as a sponsored company. Sweeps completed the program in mid-2014. During its time in the accelerator, Sweeps won the 2013 Chapel Hill Business of the Year Award, launched a new website, and began expansion into other cities.


</doc>
<doc id="41074074" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074074" title="Bethany Hall-Long">
Bethany Hall-Long

Bethany A. Hall-Long (born November 12, 1963) is an American politician and a member of the Democratic Party. She currently serves as the 26th Lieutenant Governor of Delaware. Hall-Long previously served in the Delaware Senate from 2009 to 2017 and in the Delaware House of Representatives from 2003 to 2009. She was elected lieutenant governor in 2016, defeating Republican La Mar Gunn.

Hall-Long was born in 1963 in Sussex County. She is a descendant of David Hall, the 15th Governor of Delaware. She was raised on a farm with her two older brothers and attended Indian River High School. She earned a BSN from Thomas Jefferson University, an MSN from the Medical University of South Carolina, and a PhD in health policy and nursing administration from George Mason University.


Hall-Long met her husband Dana while in high school and they married in 1987. Dana served in the U.S. Navy from 1982 to 1991 as a data systems technician. On October 30, 2014, he was arrested after being caught on video taking down political signs erected by Republicans.




</doc>
<doc id="41074075" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074075" title="Naser Kiadeh">
Naser Kiadeh

Naser Kiadeh () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074078" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074078" title="List of doping cases in sport (F)">
List of doping cases in sport (F)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "F".


</doc>
<doc id="41074093" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074093" title="Deh Baneh">
Deh Baneh

Deh Baneh () may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41074110" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074110" title="Motaalleq Mahalleh">
Motaalleq Mahalleh

Motaalleq Mahalleh or Motaaleq Mahalleh () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074139" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074139" title="Wealth Partaking Scheme">
Wealth Partaking Scheme

Wealth Partaking Scheme (; ) is a cash disbursement policy to holders of a Macau Resident Identity Card by the Macau Special Administrative Region since 2008. The main purpose of the scheme is to share the results of the region's economic development with its people and help mitigate the effects of inflation.

Residents who have a valid or renewable Macau Resident Identity Card are the target beneficiaries of the scheme.

Beneficiaries of the Social Welfare Bureau (IAS), which include teachers who receive direct subsidies, students who are subsidized with scholarships or from the Student Welfare Fund by the Education and Youth Affairs Bureau (DESJ), other retired civil service employees, and senior citizens may have their money automatically deposited in a banking account or they can receive a crossed cheque by post.

Francis Tam, the Secretary for Economy and Finance, announced the Wealth Partaking Scheme at the Macau Government Headquarterson May 23, 2008. He said that for the initial run of the scheme, holders of permanent and non-permanent Macau Resident Identity Cards could receive 5,000 and 3,000 patacas respectively. More than 11,000 people who qualified for Macau Resident Identity Card applied for one after the scheme was announced, hoping to receive money. This is 10 times more than the normal number of applications.

In his Policy Address on Nov 11, 2008, Chief Executive of Macau Edmund Ho announced that the region would have another wealth sharing scheme in the next fiscal year (2009) to help offset the negative economic influence of the Financial crisis of 2007–08. This time, permanent and non-permanent residents would receive 6,000 and 3,600 patacas as announced by Edmund Ho during the question and answer session in the Legislative Assembly of Macau on April 16, 2009. Every year since, the scheme has been a regular part of the Policy Address.

In his policy address on November 16, 2010, Chief Executive of Macau Fernando Chui announced a substantial decrease for the scheme to 4,000 and 2,400 patacas for permanent and non-permanent residents respectively. The next year on April 21, 2011, Chui announced that "Cash Subsidy" (, ) would be 3,000 and 1,800 patacas to permanent and non-permanent residents respectively for that fiscal year. Despite this reduction, the total subsidy distribution in fiscal year 2011 was more than the previous fiscal year and it was the fiscal year to have cash subsidy policy only.

The Government of Macau set up the "Support Centre for Wealth Disbursement" (, ) in Largo Tap Seac on July 1, 2008 to disburse the payments and provide related services for the scheme. As the cheque from the scheme for each fiscal year is valid for 3 years,the Service Center of the Civic and Municipal Affairs Bureau (IACM) has acted on behalf of the Wealth Partaking Payment Assistance Center which located in 2/F, Edifício China Plaza, Avenida da Praia Grande since November 3, 2008.




</doc>
<doc id="41074145" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074145" title="Pain Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh">
Pain Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh

Pain Mahalleh-ye Naser Kiadeh (, also Romanized as Pā’īn Maḩalleh-ye Nāşer Kīādeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 511, in 153 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074148" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074148" title="Saharkhiz Mahalleh">
Saharkhiz Mahalleh

Saharkhiz Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Saḩarkhīz Maḩalleh; also known as Saḩarkhīz) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 474, in 127 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074149" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074149" title="Seyyed Mahalleh, Lahijan">
Seyyed Mahalleh, Lahijan

Seyyed Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Seyyed Maḩalleh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 239, in 77 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074150" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074150" title="I Am Malala">
I Am Malala

I Am Malala: The Story of the Girl Who Stood Up for Education and was Shot by the Taliban is an autobiographical book by Malala Yousafzai, co-written with Christina Lamb. It was published on 8 October 2013, by Weidenfeld & Nicolson in the UK and Little, Brown and Company in the US. The book details the early life of Yousafzai, her father's ownership of schools and activism, the rise and fall of the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in Swat Valley and the assassination attempt made against Yousafzai, when she was aged 15, following her activism for female education. It has received a positive critical reception and won awards, though it has been banned in many schools in Pakistan.

Part One covers Malala Yousafzai's life "Before the Taliban". She describes her childhood home Swat Valley. Named for Malalai of Maiwand, Yousafzai lived with her father Ziauddin, her mother Toor Pekai and two younger brothers Khushal and Atal. Ziauddin's father Rohul Amin was an imam and a teacher. Ziauddin studied a Master's in English at Jehanzeb College. He opened the Khushal School with a partner Naeem, who later left due to financial difficulties. Ziauddin found a new partner Hidayatullah, with whom the school slowly began to make a profit. As Ziauddin began to open more schools, Toor Pekai would bring children in need to live with them and Ziauddin would give free places in his schools to poor children. Yousafzai describes the changing political regimes in Pakistan, the first drone strikes in Pakistan in 2004 following the September 11 attacks, and the 2005 Kashmir earthquake.

Part Two, "The Valley of Death", details the rise of the Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan in Swat. In 2006, Fazlullah began a popular "Radio Mullah" broadcast which initially gave advice on such matters as ritual ablutions and drug abstinence, but progressed into the condemnation of music and dancing, and instruction on women staying in the home. The book also describes the continuing War in North-West Pakistan, and the return of Benazir Bhutto in Pakistan which culminated in her assassination. The Taliban began to commit further murders such as that of Shabana, and Ziauddin Yousafzai continued outspoken activism. During the First Battle of Swat, Malala begins to write a BBC Urdu blog under the pseudonym "Gul Mukai". Her school is shut down following a Taliban edict in 2009, and her family are forced to move to Shangla for three months.

Part Three is entitled "Three Bullets,Three Girls". By August 2009, the army have fought off the Taliban in Swat, and the Yousafzai family return. Malala's school re-opens, and she visits Islamabad with school friends, meeting with Major General Athar Abbas and giving a public speech. With her father, Yousafzai speaks at many interviews, critical of the Taliban and the army's ineffectiveness. The 2010 Pakistan floods devastate Swat, destroying buildings and leaving many without food, clean water and electricity. In the rest of the country, CIA agent Raymond Davis murders two men and the Americans kill bin Laden, leading to widespread mistrust of American influence in Pakistan by the public. In late 2011, Yousafzai begins to receive prizes for her activism. She travels to Karachi to talk to Geo TV, also visiting the mausoleum of Muhammad Ali Jinnah. Yousafzai receives death threats, which worries her parents. Following the shooting of Zahid Khan in August 2012, Ziauddin expected to be targeted next. Malala also begins to fear an attack on her. She revises hard for her exams, staying up late at night. After her Pakistan Studies paper on 9 October, two men stop her bus and come aboard. One shouts "Who is Malala?" and shoots three bullets.

Part Four is named "Between Life and Death". One bullet travelled from Yousafzai's left eye to her shoulder, and her friends Shazia and Kainat were also non-fatally injured. Yousafzai's father gave a speech with the Association of Private Schools before rushing to the hospital, while Yousafzai's mother was learning to read and rushed home to pray. Malala was taken by helicopter to the Combined Military Hospital in Peshawar and then airlifted to a military hospital in Rawalpindi. Yousafzai was taken on 15 October to Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham, aboard a United Arab Emirates jet, but her father refused to come as the rest of the family could not travel without passports. 

Part Five is called "A Second Life". Yousafzai woke up in Birmingham on 16 October, and spent the following days obsessed with the location of her father, and not being able to afford medical treatment, though the Pakistani government was covering costs. Yousafzai received 8000 cards and many presents, and her family arrived on 25 October. She underwent surgery on 11 November to repair her facial nerve; in January 2013, she was discharged, and in February she received surgery to get a cochlear implant. Yousafzai lives in Birmingham, though she misses Swat, and plans to continue her activism so she can be known not as "the girl who was shot by the Taliban" but as "the girl who fought for education".

According to "Publishers Weekly", in 2017 the book had sold almost 2 million copies, and there were 750,000 copies of the children's edition in print. In March 2018, "The Bookseller" reported that 328,000 copies of the book had been sold in the UK, netting over £2.47 million.


Baroness Warsi, writing for "The Daily Telegraph", gives the book four stars out of five, writing "Malala has turned a tragedy into something positive". "Entertainment Weekly" gave the book a "B+", writing "Malala's bravely eager voice can seem a little thin here, in "I Am Malala", likely thanks to her co-writer, but her powerful message remains undiluted." "Metro" list the book as one of the "20 best non-fiction books of 2013", praising that Yousafzai's story is "one of idealism and stubborn courage".

In "The Observer", a reviewer praises Lamb for ensuring "the teenager's voice is never lost", and summarises that "this extraordinary schoolgirl's words are a reminder of all that is best in human nature". A reviewer for "The Guardian" called the book "fearless" and stated that "the haters and conspiracy theorists would do well to read this book", though she criticised "the stiff, know-it-all voice of a foreign correspondent" that is interwoven with Yousafzai's. In "The Spectator", a reviewer describes Yousafzai's story as "astonishing", and writes that "as the story progresses, Malala’s voice definitely cuts through, clear and defiant". A reviewer for "The Washington Post" called the book "riveting" and wrote "It is difficult to imagine a chronicle of a war more moving, apart from perhaps the diary of Anne Frank."

The All Pakistan Private School's Federation announced that the book would be banned in its 152,000 member institutions, stating that it disrespected Islam and could have a "negative" influence. Pakistani investigative editor Ansar Abbasi described her work as "providing her critics something 'concrete' to prove her as an 'agent' of the West against Islam and Pakistan".

Following the book's release, the Pakistani Taliban released a statement threatening to kill Yousafzai, and target bookshops which sell the book.

"I Am Malala" was published on 8 October 2013, by Weidenfeld & Nicolson in the UK and Little, Brown and Company in the US. The book has been translated into over 40 languages.

A children's edition of the memoir was published in 2014 under the title "I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up for Education and Changed the World". The audio book edition, narrated by Neela Vaswani, won the 2015 Grammy Award for Best Children's Album.



</doc>
<doc id="41074151" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074151" title="Seyqal Boneh">
Seyqal Boneh

Seyqal Boneh (, also Romanized as Şeyqal Boneh; also known as Eslām Deh and Sakhl-e Baneh Bārgū Sarā) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 201, in 57 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074153" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074153" title="Shirju Posht-e Bala">
Shirju Posht-e Bala

Shirju Posht-e Bala (, also Romanized as Shīrjū Posht-e Bālā; also known as Shīrjū Posht and Shīrjū Posht-e Bālā Maḩalleh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 594, in 164 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074155" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074155" title="Photo elicitation">
Photo elicitation

Photo-elicitation is a method of interview in visual sociology and marketing research that uses visual images to elicit comments. The types of images used include photographs, video, paintings, cartoons, graffiti, and advertising, among others. Either the interviewer or the subject may provide the images.

The main purpose of photo-elicitation interviewing is to record how subjects respond to the images, attributing their social and personal meanings and values. The meanings and emotions elicited may differ from or supplement those obtained through verbal inquiry. Regions of the brain that process visual information are evolutionarily and developmentally older than the parts that process verbal information.

Visual images can evoke emphatic understanding of how other people experience their world. Photo-elicitation has been used successfully in a range of studies and is common in participatory research with young children and marginalised communities.

Photo-Elicitation is unique to the interviewer as well as to the subject. When a photograph is taken, it has meaning to the interviewer, formed in part by the context of the image. To another interviewer, the same photograph may illustrate a similar concept, but two interviewers will never have exactly the same initial reaction to any image. 

This is an ideal method of qualitative research for those who are naturally visual learners. Also, our brain processes visuals differently from verbal communication. Therefore, photographs may also help to alleviate certain social anxieties that arise when discussing "difficult emotional subjects," such as illness, death, poverty, etc. 

Many still question photo-elicitation as a research method, claiming the photographs taken during social experiments to be better known as art, than as research. But there are certain sub-sets of data that can be produced when the interviewer and subject collaborate to create an image that are hard to capture by other traditional means of data gathering. Without these sub-sets, sometimes even the most important conclusions of research are empty when it comes to human emotion and expression.



</doc>
<doc id="41074156" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074156" title="Shirju Posht-e Pain">
Shirju Posht-e Pain

Shirju Posht-e Pain (, also Romanized as Shīrjū Posht-e Pā’īn; also known as Shīrjū Posht-e Pā’īn Maḩalleh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 343, in 96 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074157" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074157" title="Sarajar">
Sarajar

Sarajar (, also Romanized as Sarājār; also known as Sarachar and Sarājār-e Pā’īn Maḩalleh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 852, in 258 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074160" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074160" title="Titi Parizad">
Titi Parizad

Titi Parizad (, also Romanized as Tītī Parīzād; also known as Tītī Parīzādeh) is a village in Shirju Posht Rural District, Rudboneh District, Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 78, in 25 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074162" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074162" title="Cynthia Biggs">
Cynthia Biggs

Cynthia Biggs, lawfully known as Cynthia Biggs El, is an American songwriter, producer, publisher and vocalist who wrote music and lyrics for the Philadelphia International Records label. Her main collaborations were with composers Dexter Wansel, Bruce Hawes, and Theodore Wortham. Cynthia has more than 350 songwriting credits including Patti LaBelle's 1983 single "If Only You Knew," which reached number 1 on "Billboard" magazine's Top 100 R&B Singles chart for four consecutive weeks in January 1984.

Born near North Carolina territory, Cynthia was three when her family moved near Philadelphia territory. She joined her high school's gospel choir, continuing to write music for them after she graduated. Her original music garnered attention during the group's performances, leading to the offer to sign an exclusive songwriter's contract with Philadelphia International Records' Mighty Three Music Group in 1974.







</doc>
<doc id="41074173" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074173" title="Shirju Posht">
Shirju Posht

Shirju Posht () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41074204" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074204" title="Castles of Dahn">
Castles of Dahn

The castles of Dahn (, literally "Dahn castle group"), near the little town of Dahn in the German state of Rhineland-Palatinate, consist of three rock castles:

The so-called Dahner Felsenland area of the Wasgau, the region forming the southern part of the Palatine Forest and the northern part of the Vosges, has a large number of castles and rock formations. For example, northwest of the castles at Dahn is Neudahn Castle and, close to the edge of the town, there are natural rock formations like the Jungfernsprung and the Bride and Groom ("Braut und Bräutigam").

The three castles were built next to one another, but not at the same time, utilizing five neighbouring rocks on a single ridge situated just under a kilometre east of Dahn. Their construction involved several generations of noble families from Dahn and lasted almost two centuries: Tanstein dates to the early 12th century; Altdahn to the early 13th century and Grafendahn to the late 13th century.

A similar arrangement of two or three castles clustered closely together may be found in several places in the south part of neighbouring Alsatian Vosges: the Dreistein at Odilienberg near Obernai, the three castles on the Schlossberg near Reinhardsmunster, the Drei Exen near Eguisheim and the castle group of Haut-Kœnigsbourg/Oedenburg.




</doc>
<doc id="41074205" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074205" title="Azarsetanaki">
Azarsetanaki

Azarsetanaki (, also Romanized as Āzārsetānakī; also known as Āzārsetān) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 261, in 82 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074206" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074206" title="Bala Bijar Ankish">
Bala Bijar Ankish

Bala Bijar Ankish (, also Romanized as Bālā Bījār Ankīsh; also known as Bījār Ankīsh-e Bālā) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 38, in 7 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074209" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074209" title="Bala Tamushal">
Bala Tamushal

Bala Tamushal (, also Romanized as Bālā Tamūshal; also known as Bālāmaḩalleh-ye Tamūshal) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 387, in 112 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074210" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074210" title="Bilazh Mahalleh">
Bilazh Mahalleh

Bilazh Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Bīlāzh Maḩalleh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 60, in 22 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074211" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074211" title="Bandbon-e Bala">
Bandbon-e Bala

Bandbon-e Bala (, also Romanized as Bandbon-e Bālā; also known as Bālā Bandbūn and Bandbūn) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 76, in 22 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074212" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074212" title="Bandbon-e Pain">
Bandbon-e Pain

Bandbon-e Pain (, also Romanized as Bandbon-e Pā’īn) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 122, in 38 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074213" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074213" title="Bujayeh">
Bujayeh

Bujayeh (, also Romanized as Būjāyeh; also known as Būjā’ī, Bū Jā’ī, Būjā’ī, Būjāneh, and Bū Jāneh-ye Bālā) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 3,186, in 888 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074214" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074214" title="Chichi Nikuti">
Chichi Nikuti

Chichi Nikuti (, also Romanized as Chīchī Nīkūtī) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 174, in 45 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074215" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074215" title="Counterintuitive">
Counterintuitive

A counterintuitive proposition is one that does not seem likely to be true when assessed using intuition, common sense, or gut feelings.

Scientifically discovered or mathematically proven objective truths are often called counterintuitive when intuition, emotions, and other cognitive processes outside of deductive rationality interpret them to be wrong. However, the subjective nature of intuition limits the objectivity of what to call counterintuitive because what is counterintuitive for one may be intuitive for another. This might occur in instances where intuition changes with knowledge. For instance, many aspects of quantum mechanics or general relativity may sound counterintuitive to a layman, while they may be intuitive to a particle physicist.

Flawed intuitive understanding of a problem may lead to counterproductive behavior with undesirable outcomes. In some such cases, counterintuitive policies may then produce a more desirable outcome. This can lead to conflicts between those who hold deontological and consequentialist ethical perspectives on those issues.

Many scientific ideas that are generally accepted by people today were formerly considered to be contrary to intuition and common sense.

For example, most everyday experience suggests that the Earth is flat; actually, this view turns out to be a remarkably good approximation to the true state of affairs, which is that the Earth is a "very big" (relative to the day-to-day scale familiar to humans) oblate spheroid.
Furthermore, prior to the Copernican revolution, heliocentrism, the belief that the Earth goes around the Sun, rather than "vice versa", was considered to be contrary to common sense.

Another counterintuitive scientific idea concerns space travel: it was initially believed that highly streamlined shapes would be best for re-entering the earth's atmosphere. In fact, experiments proved that blunt-shaped re-entry bodies make the most efficient heat shields when returning to earth from space. Blunt-shaped re-entry vehicles have been used for all manned spaceflights, including the Mercury, Gemini, Apollo and Space Shuttle missions.

The Michelson-Morley experiment sought to measure the velocity of the Earth through the aether as it revolved around the Sun. The result was that it has no aether velocity at all. Relativity theory later explained the results, replacing the conventional notions of aether and separate space, time, mass, and energy with a counterintuitive four-dimensional non-Euclidean universe.

Some further counterintuitive examples are:

In science:

In politics and economics:

Many examples of cognitive bias, such as:




</doc>
<doc id="41074217" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074217" title="Chamandan">
Chamandan

Chamandan (, also Romanized as Chamandān) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 168, in 44 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074218" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074218" title="Coquitlam Search and Rescue">
Coquitlam Search and Rescue

Coquitlam Search and Rescue (SAR) is a volunteer, non-profit organization dedicated to wilderness search and rescue in the Coquitlam area of British Columbia, Canada. Its service area includes the communities of Anmore, Belcarra, Burnaby, Coquitlam, New Westminster, Port Coquitlam and Port Moody.

Coquitlam Search and Rescue responds to an average of 35 tasks per year.

The all-volunteer team is made up of highly skilled hikers, mountaineers and back country skiers, some of whom dedicate more than 500 hours per year and often conduct rescues at night, in bad weather, and on short notice. The team trains together every Tuesday night. Volunteers also attend special courses, devote time to education and fundraising, and pay for their own personal equipment and clothing.


</doc>
<doc id="41074219" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074219" title="Dehsar, Ahandan">
Dehsar, Ahandan

Dehsar (, also Romanized as Deh Sar) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 398, in 103 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074220" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074220" title="CGR 2-6-0ST 1900">
CGR 2-6-0ST 1900

The Cape Government Railways 2-6-0ST of 1900 was a South African steam locomotive from the pre-Union era in the Cape of Good Hope.

In 1900, two 2-6-0 Mogul type saddle-tank locomotives entered service on the Port Elizabeth Harbour works, followed by one more in 1904. They were later taken onto the Cape Government Railways roster and were all still in service when the South African Railways was established in 1912.

In 1900, two 2-6-0 saddle-tank locomotives were delivered to the Port Elizabeth Harbour Board (PEHB) from Kitson and Company. In 1904, they were followed by one more from the same manufacturer.
The builder’s works numbers of the first two locomotives are not known, but are probably two of Kitson numbers 4079 to 4083 in respect of which no trial date or owner are given in the Kitson Works Trial Book. The third locomotive, Kitson no. 4245, is listed with trial date 8 December 1903 and customer "H Chaplin P.E.H.B." From the trial date, it would follow that the locomotive could only have entered service in Port Elizabeth early in 1904.

The locomotives were similar in appearance and general dimensions to the 1st Class 2-6-0ST of 1876 which had been delivered as a pair of Stephenson's Patent back-to-back side-tank locomotives, before being rebuilt to saddle-tank locomotives by the Cape Government Railways (CGR) in the 1880s. The new locomotives were slightly larger, with an increased heating surface and tractive effort.

The locomotives were acquired as construction locomotives for use on the Port Elizabeth harbour works. The PEHB used letters to number its locomotives at the time, and the first two of these engines were lettered I and J, while the one which was delivered in 1904 was lettered O.

In terms of Cape Act 38 of 1908, the Cape Government Railways (CGR) became responsible for the administration of the three major harbours in the Cape of Good Hope with effect from 1 January 1909. The locomotives were therefore all taken onto the CGR roster and renumbered in the range from 1024 to 1026. They spent their entire service lives as dock shunting engines in the Port Elizabeth Harbour.

When the Union of South Africa was established on 31 May 1910, the three Colonial government railways (CGR, Natal Government Railways and Central South African Railways) were united under a single administration to control and administer the railways, ports and harbours of the Union. Although the South African Railways and Harbours came into existence in 1910, the actual classification and renumbering of all the rolling stock of the three constituent railways were only implemented with effect from 1 January 1912.

In 1912, the locomotives were considered obsolete by the SAR and renumbered by having the numeral "0" prefixed to their existing engine numbers. Even though obsolete, they remained in service until 1931.


</doc>
<doc id="41074221" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074221" title="Darreh Jir">
Darreh Jir

Darreh Jir (, also Romanized as Darreh Jīr) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 215, in 71 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074223" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074223" title="Dozdaksu">
Dozdaksu

Dozdaksu (, also Romanized as Dozdaksū; also known as Dozdak) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 43, in 10 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074226" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074226" title="Jir Gavabar, Lahijan">
Jir Gavabar, Lahijan

Jir Gavabar (, also Romanized as Jīr Gavābar; also known as Jirgaver) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 90, in 27 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074228" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074228" title="Golestan, Gilan">
Golestan, Gilan

Golestan (, also Romanized as Golestān) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 42, in 10 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074229" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074229" title="Gerd-e Kuh, Lahijan">
Gerd-e Kuh, Lahijan

Gerd-e Kuh (, also Romanized as Gerd-e Kūh) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 171, in 46 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074230" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074230" title="Jowr Gavaber, Lahijan">
Jowr Gavaber, Lahijan

Jowr Gavaber (, also Romanized as Jowr Gavāber) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its existence was noted, but its population was not reported.


</doc>
<doc id="41074233" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074233" title="Halukhani">
Halukhani

Halukhani (, also Romanized as Hālūkhānī) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 96, in 21 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074236" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074236" title="Khurtay">
Khurtay

Khurtay (, also Romanized as Khūrtāy) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 121, in 29 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074238" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074238" title="Kuh Boneh">
Kuh Boneh

Kouhbane (, also Romanized as Kouhbane and Kouhbane) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,453, in 398 families.

Central District Branch of the rural city of Gilan province of Iran. The village, like most villages towering Alborz Mountains along the West Branch is mountainous and is drawn. Most people in this village are agriculture and the cultivation of tea and rice.


</doc>
<doc id="41074240" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074240" title="Kureh Bar">
Kureh Bar

Kureh Bar (, also Romanized as Kūreh Bar and Kūrehbar) is a village in Ahandan Rural District, in the Central District of Lahijan County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 216, in 59 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41074252" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074252" title="2D Filters">
2D Filters

Two dimensional filters have seen substantial development effort due to their importance and high applicability across several domains. In the 2-D case the situation is quite different from the 1-D case, because the multi-dimensional polynomials cannot in general be factored. This means that an arbitrary transfer function cannot generally be manipulated into a form required by a particular implementation. The input-output relationship of a 2-D IIR filter obeys a constant-coefficient linear partial difference equation from which the value of an output sample can be computed using the input samples and previously computed output samples. Because the values of the output samples are fed back, the 2-D filter, like its 1-D counterpart, can be unstable.

Due to the rapid development of information science and computing technology, the theory of digital filters design and application has achieved leap-forward development. We encounter a variety of signals in real-life, such as broadcasting signals, television signals, radar signals, mobile phone signals, navigation signals, radio astronomy signal, biomedical signals, control signals, weather signal, seismic signal, mechanical vibration signal, remote sensing and telemetry signals, etc. Most of these signals are analog signals and just a small portion of them are digital signals. The analog signals are continuous function of the independent variables, which can be one-dimensional, two-dimensional or multidimensional. In most cases, the variable of one-dimensional analog signals are time. After the time sampling and discretization of magnitude, such analog signal will become a one-dimensional digital signal. The resulting digital signal can be represented by a discrete sequence. For example, one common signal is voice signal. An example of a two-dimensional signal is an image. A filter is a system that can transform a signal into another signal. Examples of such transformation include smoothing the signal for noise removal, removing frequency components from a signal and amplifying frequency components for signal enhancement. The design and implementation of filter is an important branch in signal analysis and processing technology. Filters also play a main role in signal acquisition, transmission, processing and exchange.

Digital signal filtering is implementing a digital filter. A digital filter is a system that performs mathematical operations on a sampled, discrete-time signal to reduce or enhance certain aspects of that signal. The input and output signals are all digital signals. This is in contrast to the other major type of electronic filter, the analog filter, which is an electronic circuit operating on a continuous-time analog signal. Actually the basic concept of digital filters and analog filters are the same. The only difference is the types of signals and the methods to filtering. Digital filters can be implemented numerically in software and have the advantages of high processing accuracy, steady system, little volume and light weight. There is no impedance matching in digital filters and digital filters can accomplish some special filtering functions that can’t be accomplished by analog filters. Analog signals can also be processed through digital filters by using Analog to Digital converters.

Two-dimensional filters are used to process two-dimensional digital signals. There is an important difference between the design of 1-D and 2-D digital filter problems. In 1-D case, the design and the implementation of filters can be more easily considered separately. The filter can first be designed and then, through the appropriate manipulations of the transfer function, the coefficients required by a particular network structure can be determined. While in the 2-D case, the design and implementation are more closely related. Since multidimensional polynomials can’t be factored in general. This means that an arbitrary multi-dimensional transfer function can generally not be manipulated into a form required by a particular implementation. If our implementation can realize only factorable transfer functions, our design algorithm must be tailored to design only filters of this class. This has the effect of complicating the design problem and also limiting the number of practical implementations. Digital filters can be categorized into two main types, namely finite impulse response (FIR) and infinite impulse response (IIR). 2-D FIR digital filter is achieved by a non-recursive algorithm structure while 2-D IIR digital filter is achieved by a recursive feedback algorithm structure.

An IIR filter may be implemented in direct form by rearranging its difference equation to express one output sample in terms of the input samples and previously computed output samples. For a first-quadrant filter, the input signal formula_1 and the output signal formula_2 are related by

formula_3

Since the response of the filter to an impulse formula_4 is by definition the impulse response formula_5, we can derive the relationship

formula_6

By taking the 2-D z-transform of both sides, we can solve for the system function formula_7, which is given by

formula_8

This ratio may be viewed as resulting from the cascade of two filters, an FIR filter with a system function equal toformula_9 and an IIR filter with a system function equal to formula_10, as shown in the figure below.

Another method to build up complicated 2-D IIR filters is by the parallel interconnection of subfilters. In this case, the overall transfer function becomes

formula_11

Using equation

formula_12

and putting the sum in transfer function over a common denominator, we get the expanded form

formula_13

The parallel form cannot be used to implement an arbitrary 2-D rational system function. Nevertheless, we can synthesize interesting 2-D IIR filters which can be implemented by a parallel architecture. For example, the parallel form may be advantageous when designing a filter with multiple passband. The parallel implementation can also be useful for implementing a 2-D IIR filter whose impulse response is not confined to a single quadrant, such as a symmetric filter.

Many design techniques for 2-D IIR digital filters have been reported in the literature([1]-[4]). During the past decade, genetic algorithm has been successfully used to digital filter design. Here we present a method for designing 2-D IIR Filters called GA-Based design method.

The figure below shows the proposed GA-Based design flow. Filter coefficients are encoded in their CSD number representation. In the population initialization, chromosomes are generated randomly. Each coefficient has the pre-specified wordlength and maximum number of non-zero digits, which can be set to any desired values.

Roulette Wheel Selection is used as the reproduction operator. After each crossover operation, the coefficient where the crossover point lies in will be checked upon CSD format. Mutation operation is the simple single bit flip. After mutation, each coefficient in the offspring is checked upon CSD format.

The fitness evaluation is a two-step process. The first step is to check the stability of each second order section using the stability triangle. Chromosomes failing the check are assigned fitness value 0. Elitist strategy is applied for old generation replacement. After reproduction the best chromosome and the worst chromosome in the offspring are found out. The designed filter has non-separable numerator and separable denominator transfer function. The number restoration technique is used to ensure that the filter coefficients are represented in the pre-specified CSD format.


</doc>
<doc id="41074253" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41074253" title="Bijar Ankish">
Bijar Ankish

Bijar Ankish () may refer to:


</doc>
