<doc id="41067206" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067206" title="Medora (film)">
Medora (film)

Medora is a 2013 documentary film by Andrew Cohn and Davy Rothbart about a small town basketball team based in Medora, Indiana, called the Medora Hornets. The town's 70-students high school basketball team which is on a losing streak of many seasons, just unable to keep up with larger schools in the area league, much as Medora itself struggles to barely survive.

The directors were initially interested in the team after an article in "The New York Times" about the team. For the full season 2010-2011, they took more than 600 hours of footage about the team and the lives and struggles of its team members. The post-production costs were financed through the crowdfunding site Kickstarter. The resulting 82-minute documentary was released in November 2013.
"Medora" had its premiere during the South by Southwest Film Festival in March 2013. It was also an official selection during the Full Frame Documentary Film Festival in 2013, and played over 20 other festivals worldwide throughout the year.

Critics agree that "Medora" is not just another basketball documentary. "Variety" magazine said that the filmmakers Andrew Cohn and Davy Rothbart "deliver a bleakly potent portrait of life in an economically devastated Middle American town." The film also received glowing reviews in The New York Times, the Village Voice, Entertainment Weekly, and Time, among others, and currently scores a 92% "Fresh" rating on film website Rotten Tomatoes.

Dylan Fish


"Medora, Original Soundtrack from the Motion Picture" is being released by ABCKO Records on November 19, 2013. The album contains 18 tracks, including 10 original score tracks by Bobby Emmett and Patrick Keeler.

The album features the film's original music composed by Bobby Emmett, as well as tracks by Joe Lapaglia, Dabrye, Kadence, Harlan, Chris Bathgate and The Press Delete.




</doc>
<doc id="41067232" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067232" title="M. Erfan Hidayatullah">
M. Erfan Hidayatullah

Erfan Hidayatullah (born on April 30, 1984) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persepam Madura United in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067254" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067254" title="Achievement orientation">
Achievement orientation

Achievement orientation refers to how an individual interprets and reacts to tasks, resulting in different patterns of cognition, affect and behavior. Developed within a social-cognitive framework, achievement goal theory proposes that students’ motivation and achievement-related behaviors can be understood by considering the reasons or purposes they adopt while engaged in academic work. The focus is on how students think about themselves, their tasks, and their performance. In general, an individual can be said to be “mastery” or “performance” oriented, based on whether one’s goal is to develop one’s ability or to demonstrate one’s ability, respectively. Achievement orientations have been shown to be associated with individuals’ academic achievement, adjustment, and well-being.

Research on achievement motivation can be traced back to the 1940s following the seminal work of David McClelland and colleagues who established the link between achievement and motivations (see need for achievement). Students’ achievement orientations were shown to be predictive of academic performance, specifically, students with high achievement orientation tended to value competence, expect success and seek challenges, while students with low achievement motivation tended to expect failure and avoid challenges.

In an effort to better understand the mechanisms underlying achievement, personality and social psychology researchers expanded McClelland’s work by examining how cognitive representations shape social experiences. Personality researchers have explored aspects of achievement motivation as an aspect of identity, whereas social psychologists have focused on the thought patterns that arise across various contexts.

Significant research and a consistent pattern of results have demonstrated that an individual’s achievement orientation in a particular domain can be characterized by one of two distinct achievement profiles: mastery orientation or performance orientation.

A mastery orientation is characterized by the belief that success is the result of effort and use of the appropriate strategies. Mastery oriented individuals strive to develop their understanding and competence at a task by exerting a high level of effort. Across numerous studies, mastery orientation has been shown to promote adaptive patterns of learning, which ultimately lead to high academic achievement and adjustment. For example, students with a mastery orientation are more intrinsically motivated to learn, use deeper cognitive strategies, and persist through challenge and failure;

A performance orientation is characterized by the belief that success is the result of superior ability and of surpassing one’s peers. Performance oriented individuals desire to outperform others and demonstrate (validate) their ability. Performance orientation is predictive of negative affect, avoidance of challenge and poor achievement outcomes. ()

More recent conceptualizations of achievement orientation have added an additional element. The traditional mastery and performance orientations are broken down to include approach and avoidance components, resulting in four distinct achievement profiles: mastery-approach, mastery-avoidance, performance-approach, and performance-avoidance.

A "mastery-approach" orientation describes individuals who are focused on learning as much as possible, overcoming challenges through hard work, or increasing their competence at a task.

A "mastery-avoidance" orientation describes individuals who want to avoid doing worse than they have done before or failing to learn as much as possible.

A "performance-approach" orientation describes individuals who want to demonstrate and prove to others their high ability.

A "performance-avoidance" orientation describes individuals who strive to avoid looking incompetent, or less able than their peers by cultivating an appearance of effortless achievement.

Epistemological beliefs of intelligence refer to an individual’s belief about the nature of intellectual ability, specifically, is intelligence a fixed characteristic, or is it a malleable quality? Individuals conceptions of intelligence have been shown to influence cognitive and motivational factors associated with achievement orientation and ultimately academic performance.

If an individual has an entity (also referred to as “fixed”) view of intelligence, they believe that intelligence is an unchanging characteristic and are more likely to think effort plays little to no role in outcome. In other words, you are either smart, or you are not. This is particularly maladaptive in academia. Students believe that effort is unnecessary because if you are smart, everything should come easy, and if you are not smart, hard work cannot compensate for this deficiency. Students with an entity view of intelligence are more likely to develop a fear of failure, resulting in the avoidance of “intellectual tasks,” and giving up in the face of difficulty. The rationale is that if you are smart, effort is unnecessary, and if you are not, there is nothing you can do to change this.

In opposition to entity theory, individuals with an incremental (also referred to as “flexible,” and “malleable”) view of intelligence believe that intelligence is adjustable. The belief is that intelligence is the result of hard work and the use of the appropriate strategies. This is particularly adaptive because rather than giving up in the face of failure or challenge, those who endorse an incremental view of intelligence interpret these setbacks as inevitable for learning to take place. Because they are not worried that exertion of effort is a reflection of lack of intelligence, they are not afraid to work hard, resulting in an outperformance of their entity theory peers. Even after several years, the effect is consistent, such that students with an incremental view of intelligence academically outperform students who had an entity view of intelligence.

Mindset refers to an individual’s belief about oneself and one’s most basic qualities, such as talent, intelligence, and personality. Although the majority of research on mindsets has focused primarily on how they affect educational achievement, mindsets have also been shown to be influential in athletics, health and well-being, business and relationships.

Fixed mindsets are characterized by the belief that one’s basic qualities are fixed – as if genetically predetermined. Individuals with fixed mindsets believe that practice has no relationship to performance success, which has been shown to be maladaptive across domains.

Growth mindsets are characterized by the belief that talents and abilities are things that are developed through effort, practice and instruction. Individuals with growth mindsets feel that they control their success, rather than external forces, so they are better able to problem solve and persist through setbacks. Research has shown that growth mindsets foster a more positive attitude toward practice and learning, a desire for feedback, a greater ability to deal with setbacks, and significantly better performance over time.

Why foster a growth mindset in students?

Dweck (2010) explains, when students view intelligence as
something that develops over time they view challenging work as an opportunity
to learn and grow. These students value effort and realize that “even geniuses
have to work hard to develop their abilities and make their contributions” (p.
16). Students with this type of attitude are able to respond to obstacles, try
new strategies and continue to learn and grow in many situations, which leads
to higher achievement.

How to foster to a growth mindset in students

In order to foster a growth mindset, teachers need to encourage
students to welcome challenges and view it as an opportunity to learn and grow
. The following are a list of ways a teacher can create a culture
of risk taking:

Long term success of growth mindset

Designing and presenting learning tasks that foster a growth
mindset in students, leads to long-term success. Growth mindsets
promote a love of learning and highlight progress and effort. Teachers that
illustrate meaningful work help students gain the tools they need to find
confidence in their learning and be successful in future challenges.

Achievement orientations have been shown to be influenced by a combination of cognitive-motivational and contextual factors.

One factor that has been shown to be influential in the development of achievement orientations is the type of praise given to individuals. Type of praise not only affects behaviors, beliefs, emotions and outcomes immediately after it is imparted, but has also been shown to have long term consequences. Specifically, it affects how individuals deal with future difficulties and their willingness to apply effort to challenges that may come their way. Verbal praise is often administered as a way to reinforce the performance or behavior of individuals and although there may be positive intentions, some types of praise can have debilitating implications for the recipient. The specific distinction lies in what the praise is directed towards.

"Process praise" is focused on the actions taken by the individual, especially their effort and problem solving strategies, such as “Great job! You’re working really hard.” Process praise reinforces the association between success and effort (or behavior) rather than a fixed ability, which cultivates the more adaptive mastery orientation and incremental view of intelligence.

"Person praise" is focused on the individual themselves, similar to an affirmation of self-worth, such as, “Wow, you’re so smart.” Because it applauds the individual by applying a label or an unchangeable characteristic, person praise promotes a performance orientation and a fixed view of intelligence. Students are being rewarded, through praise, for their performance based on their ability. Children who are given person praise tend to have worse task performance, more low-ability attributions, report less task enjoyment and exhibit less task persistence, than children who are given process praise. Additionally, person praise is more likely to promote helpless responses to subsequent failures than process praise.

Although praise for intelligence is usually well-intentioned, and can be motivating when students are doing well, it backfires when students eventually face work that is difficult for them. When this happens, the failure is a threat to the person’s sense of his or her own intelligence—a situation to avoid. Thus, praise for intelligence is a short-term strategy that makes successful students feel good at the moment, but one that is detrimental to students in the longer run.

Age is a significant factor in predicting an individual’s achievement orientation, with younger individuals more likely to adopt a mastery orientation. Beginning at the transition to middle school, students tend to exhibit a performance orientation, along with an overall decline in academic motivation across adolescence. This follows the developmental propensity to view intelligence as a fixed characteristic in adulthood.

Supporting the gender disparities in STEM fields, previous research has suggested that females develop a motivational orientation that is maladaptive to high academic achievement, particularly in math and science. However, overall, the research examining gender differences in achievement orientation has been conflicting. For example, research by Carol Dweck has shown gender differences with females being more extrinsic or performance oriented. On the other hand, other studies have found that females are more likely to be mastery oriented, while males are more likely to hold performance orientations.

Despite the lack of uniformity among research findings, there is a general consensus that gender influences the development of different rationales and motivations for behavior, as a result of unique socialization expectations and experiences. These differences then affect the way students approach learning situations, leading to gender-related differences in achievement orientations. Although several studies have hypothesized this effect, there is a lack of conclusive evidence, which warrants further exploration into gender differences among individuals’ achievement orientations.

Social influences, particularly parents and peers, affect the achievement orientation of students. During early and middle childhood, the achievement beliefs, attitudes and expectations of a child's parents carries significant weight in determining his or her achievement orientation. As children transition to middle school, fitting in with one's peers becomes high priority. Peers influence achievement orientation because children adopt academic goals and beliefs consistent with the dominant social norms. Adolescents with friends having high academic aspirations tend to have fewer problems academically.

Achievement orientations play a critical role in explaining academic performance. An individual’s achievement orientation has a significant impact on his or her cultivation of new skills, and thus has important implications for educators. Classroom environments that foster comparison between students lead those students to develop performance-oriented attitudes toward education. Specifically, learning in a competitive environment leads students to become more performance oriented and more likely to sacrifice learning opportunities to be positively evaluated. Conversely, a non-competitive, collaborative environment allows students to value learning rather than immediate performance success.




</doc>
<doc id="41067308" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067308" title="Sumardi">
Sumardi

Sumardi (born June 26, 1972) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Mitra Kukar F.C. in the Indonesia Super League.



</doc>
<doc id="41067333" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067333" title="Maxentius of Aquileia">
Maxentius of Aquileia

Maxentius of Aquileia (d. 830s) (Italian ‘Massenzio’) was an Italian Patriarch. Maxentius served as the Patriarch of Aquileia from 811 till his death in 837.

Not much is known about Maxentius’s date of birth, or his early life. His rise to prominence as the Patriarch of Aquileia was not until the death of his predecessor Ursus which occurred in the early months of the 811s. Records show that he quickly picked up where Ursus had left off, soliciting in Charlemagne’s court (810/811s) for funds in order to rebuild Aquileia.

Maxentius success in being elected to the office of the Patriarch of Aquileia occurred after the period known as the Three Chapters dispute. The Three Chapters dispute had roots early in 551. However, the dispute did not pose a threat until it became a significant issue in the eyes Lombard Church at beginning of the 554s. Some argue that the Three Chapters dispute was essential a schism, a division caused by strong opposition towards beliefs or theological orthodoxy between two parties. Around 551 there was initial proclamation by Justinian I that condemned certain parts of theocratic works and beliefs of the Chalcedonian orthodox in the capital of Constantinople. In response, the Chalcedonian orthodox doctrine issued their own interpretation of the relationship between the divinity and human nature of Jesus Christ. The Chalcedonian orthodox argued that Jesus has two natures, one human and one divine and that these two natures subsisted together. Justinian I’s condemnation on specific issues of the council of the Chalcedonian orthodoxy was received badly in the West. In Rome, the Papacy eventually fell to Justinian I’s decision on the condemnation of the Chalcedonian orthodoxy. This in turn led to the Northern Italian churches of Aquileia and Milan excommunicating the papacy for its decision to support Justinian I. The conflict between the Northern Italian church and Justinian I’s position, and the papacy manifested itself in a debate that would unexpectedly threaten the unity of Christianity.

In particular, the conflict of The Three Chapter’s dispute resulted in the Church of the Aquileia splitting in two. There was the ‘new’ Aquileia in Grado, which was pro-Roman, and there was the ‘old’ Aquileia church which retained its loyalty to the Chalcedonian orthodox and wished to be under the protection of the Lombard King. The re shuffling of allegiance led to a “degree of cultural separation from Rome.”

The conflict caused by the schism of the Three Chapters lasted long enough that by the eighth century the dispute had become buried underneath diluted political and theological debate that even Paul the Deacon himself, had little knowledge of what or why or even where the debate was headed. The conflict led to old Aquileia to be viewed less favorably by the Church of Rome and by some extent the Imperial capital of Byzantium.

It was not until 698, pressure from Pope Sergius I, and no doubt the papacy’s geopolitical location of Grado led to the shift of Aquileia to readopt the Roman papacy’s orthodox. However, this further led to another conflict to arise whereas Aquileia and Grado, while now technically in communion belonged to two separate kingdoms, with Aquileia still being the center of Lombard rule in the North, and Grado, the vision of the Byzantium’s Imperial rule.

In 811, after the death of Ursus, the patriarch of Aquileia, Maxentius was appointed the title of Patriarch of Aquileia. With this title, he was able to lead the church of Aquileia to great prominence. Maxentius’s dedication to the church was followed by political, social development with minor urban growth. Maxentius dedication to his new title thus allowed Aquileia to move from the ‘rebel’ status that it once had into more favorable view and started to gain support from the Imperial capital and rising momentum of benefits from the Emperor himself.

Maxentius’s development of Aquileia gained the attention of the Byzantine Empire, especially in the 9th century. So much to say it was the vastly gaining the preference as the papacy’s preferred city in the West. Maxentius implemented ecclesiastical doctrine and legislature that allowed for a surge in economic recovery leading to further theological growth and instilling heavier political establishment of the Imperial will. Aquileia had not seen such a growth in its economy or favor from the Byzantium empire since Maxentius had been appointed the title of Patriarch.

Maxentius soon became a favorite of Charlemagne, and they frequently exchanged letters. In these letters, Charlemagne expressed his wishes for the continuing growth of theological prominence in Aquileia. The letters covered areas such as baptismal rites and the ceremony of communion and how they should be conducted. Charlemagne’s hoped that Maxentius would closely follow these rituals which were also followed by the Imperial capital and set down by the Papacy. By agreeing and enforcing the will of Charlemagne and his advisors, Maxentius helped Aquileia to gain territories and gifts from the diocese. Aquileia’s prominence was continually favored by Charlemagne’s successors and soon led to Aquileia being one of the largest dioceses in Northern Italy having the full support of the Carolingians.

In 826, Maxentius was unable to stand the city of Grado. This was due to Maxentius only seeing Grado as a retreat for the patriarchs of Aquileia and he felt that Grado had no claims to Istria or its existence as a legitimate metropolitan city. Maxentius, aware that he would have the backing from the Emperors in the West, went on the mission for Grado to concede to the city of Aquileia. Maxentius, with the added pressure from the Carolingian Emperor, demanded the patriarchal title of the bishop of Grado to be removed and Grado be subjugated to the diocese of Aquileia. The success of these demands demonstrated the power and favor which Maxentius was able to single-handedly build with the Carolingians. With Grado now under the control of the diocese of Aquileia, Maxentius had built an influential and powerful diocese that had vast territories and the full backing of the Carolingian Emperor, Louis the Pious.

After Grado was subjected to the diocese of Aquileia, Maxentius began the reconstruction of the patriarchal basilica. Some suggest that the construction of the basilica would have only been possible under Maxentius reign as patriarch of Aquileia. Aquileia was now able to fund the construction of monuments with the financial backing of the Caroligians. The Basilica was an extravagant piece of work in the East and had significant influence from the Byzantine backing in the West. 
The floors were beautifully decorated with a “mixed system of mosaic and marble slabs and the decorations of the steps of the episcopal are attributable to Maxentius.” The eastern side of the Basilica was built in a semicircular apse to which Maxentius added two side chapels. On the west side, Maxentius built an atrium to the basilica and baptistery. Maxentius further ordered for the excavation so that a crypt could be built underneath which may hold the relics of Saint Hermagoras and his deacon Fortunatus.

While sources are unclear of how Maxentius died, the sources suggest that Maxentius died around the 830s-40s. Maxentius ability to raise Aquileia from the ashes of its destruction by Attila into becoming one of the Carolingians Empire’s most treasured cities in the West illustrates his ability to combine politics and theology to achieve greatness. However, due to his dealings with Grado, many of Maxentius opponents criticized his actions as “poisonous.”


</doc>
<doc id="41067335" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067335" title="Nanotopography">
Nanotopography

Nanotopography refers to specific surface features which form or are generated at the nanoscopic scale. While the term can be used to describe a broad range of applications ranging from integrated circuits to microfluidics, in practice it typically applied to sub-micron textured surfaces as used in biomaterials research.

Several functional nanotopographies have been identified in nature. Certain surfaces like that of the lotus leaf have been understood to apply nanoscale textures for abiotic processes such as self-cleaning. Bio-mimetic applications of this discovery have since arrived in consumer products. In 2012, it was recognized that nanotopographies in nature are also used for antibiotic purposes. The wing of the cicada, the surface of which is covered in nanoscale pillars, induces lysis of bacteria. While the nano-pillars were not observed to prevent cell adhesion, they acted mechanistically to stretch microbial membranes to breakage. In vitro testing of the cicada wing demonstrated its efficacy against a variety of bacterial strains.

Numerous technologies are available for the production of nanotopography. High-throughput techniques include plasma functionalization, abrasive blasting, and etching. Though low cost, these processes are limited in the control and replicability of feature size and geometry. Techniques enabling greater feature precision exist, among them electron beam lithography and particle deposition, but are slower and more resource intensive by comparison. Alternatively, processes such as molecular self-assembly can be utilized which provide an enhanced level of production speed and feature control.

Though the effects of nanotopography on cell behavior have only been recognized since 1964, some of the first practical applications of the technology are being realized in the field of medicine. Among the few clinical applications is the functionalization of titanium implant surfaces with nanotopography, generated with submersion etching and sand blasting. This technology has been the focal point of a diverse body of research aimed at improving post-operative integration of certain implant components. The determinant of integration varies, but as most titanium implants are orthopedics-oriented, osseointegration is the dominant aim of the field.

Nanotopography is readily applied to cell culture and has been shown to have a significant impact on cell behavior across different lineages. Substrate features in the nanoscale regime down to the order of 9 nm are able to retain some effect. Subjected solely to topographical cues, a wide variety of cells demonstrate responses including changes in cell growth and gene expression. Certain patterns are able to induce stem cells to differentiate down specific pathways.
Notable results include osteogenic induction in the absence of media components as well as near-total cell alignment as seen in smooth muscle. The potential of topographical cues to fulfill roles otherwise requiring xeno-based media components offers high translatability to clinical applications, as regulation and cost related to animal-derived products constitutes a major roadblock in a number of cell-related technologies.


</doc>
<doc id="41067354" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067354" title="JR Valentin">
JR Valentin

Florante "J.R." Valentin (born February 9, 1982, in Las Pinas City) is a Filipino actor and model. He is best known for his role as Victor Perez, an idealistic police officer, in the 2005 comedy-drama "The Blossoming of Maximo Oliveros" ().



</doc>
<doc id="41067356" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067356" title="Wushantou Reservoir">
Wushantou Reservoir

Wushantou Reservoir (), sometimes spelled Wushanto or Wusanto, is a reservoir and scenic area located in Lioujia District and Guantian District of Tainan, Taiwan. It is also referred to as Coral Lake () due to its zigzagging shoreline. The reservoir was designed by engineer Yoichi Hatta and was the largest in Asia at the time of its completion in 1930.

Construction of the Wusanto Reservoir began in 1920 and was completed in 1930. The goal of the project was to provide irrigation for over 100-thousand hectares of farmland in the Chianan area. After construction of the reservoir, the irrigation plain became an important producer of rice for consumption in Taiwan and Japan, with three rice harvests possible each year.

The reservoir was built in conjunction with the Chianan Canal, also designed by Hatta. At the time of its completion, Wusanto Reservoir was the largest reservoir in Asia and the third largest in the world.
Construction of the reservoir and of the Wusanto Dam used an uncommon semi-hydraulic fill technique, where fine-grained material is placed at the end of an embankment and then washed into its desired position using jets of water; this is a variant of the hydraulic fill technique. Wusanto Reservoir is the only project constructed with the semi-hydraulic fill technique that is still in use anywhere in the world. This process was expensive and time-consuming, but produced a dam which has proven resistant to Taiwan's severe seismic activity.

Today, the Wusanto Reservoir Scenic Area is a popular tourist destination in Tainan. The area includes a memorial and museum for Yoichi Hatta. Cherry blossom viewing is a popular event in spring. The area is also known for its abundant native flora and fauna.



</doc>
<doc id="41067358" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067358" title="Russell Taylor (musician)">
Russell Taylor (musician)

Russell Taylor is an American singer and songwriter.

In 2013, VH1 featured him as part of the "You Oughta Know" series. He subsequently went on to win the title of "You Oughta Know" artist for December.

Under his original stage name "Russell" he released "Fool for Love" in 2000, which peaked at number 52 on the UK singles chart, produced by The Basement Boys, with a remix by Olav Basoski. The song was featured on the Ministry of sound collection. He was a featured vocalist on "Last Dance" and "Holiday", also by the Basement Boys and released on Basement Boys Records later in 2000., .

In 2008, two of his songs "All Said & Done" and "2b loved" were featured on the movie soundtrack for the 2007 movie Dirty Laundry.

Somewhere in between (2006)
Featuring the single "2b loved".

Confessional (2010)

War of Hearts CD Single (2013). The song was inspired by the TV show Scandal (TV Series). The song was featured TV Shows Black Ink Crew Season 2, Episode 8, Episode 15 "Black and White" from Season 13, and The Fosters (2013 TV series) Episode 16 "Us Against The World" from Season 1.

. Features single "Thrill".



</doc>
<doc id="41067363" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067363" title="Imam Pathuroman">
Imam Pathuroman

Imam Fathuroman (born on August 31, 1994) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for PS TIRA in the Liga 1.


</doc>
<doc id="41067364" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067364" title="RECLUS">
RECLUS

RECLUS (Réseau d'étude des changements dans les localisations et les unités spatiales) is a public interest group founded in 1984, associated to the Maison de la géographie de Montpellier (Geography House of Montpellier). The acronym translates to "Network for the study of changes in the locations and the spatial units" and was coined as a tribute to Élisée Reclus, the 19th-century French geographer, author of the "New Universal Geography", a treatise in 19 volumes, published by Hachette, between 1876 and 1894 . One of the most important ideas of Reclus is indeed the trans-boundary region, which is retaken by Roger Brunet, the founder of the RECLUS group and its director until 1991, in order to formulate the concept of the European Megalopolis.


</doc>
<doc id="41067366" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067366" title="Trichomyrmex destructor">
Trichomyrmex destructor

Trichomyrmex destructor is a species of ant in the subfamily Myrmicinae. Its common names include destructive trailing ant or Singapore ant. It is a pest species in urban areas, known for causing costly damage to structures, vehicles, and electronic devices with its chewing activity. In 2015, the species was moved from the genus "Monomorium" to the revised genus "Trichomyrmex".

This is a "tramp ant", an invasive ant species that easily becomes established and dominant in new habitat due to traits such as aggression toward other ant species, little aggression toward members of its own species, efficient recruitment, and large colony size. As a tramp ant, it has spread throughout the world via human transport systems, particularly shipping. It is introduced with freight in a variety of transport modes.

Today it can be found in tropical regions worldwide, and it can live in urban environments in temperate climates. It is present in or has been reported from many countries and islands in Asia, Africa, Australasia and other Pacific Islands, the West Indies, North, Central, and South America, and Europe. It is most widely distributed in the Old World, and it is very common in the Pacific Islands. Its native range is unknown. It has been hypothesized that it originated in India and perhaps other Asian countries, or Africa. Considering its close resemblance to African "Monomorium" species and its apparently continuous distribution from North Africa to Southeast Asia, its native range may include southern Asia and the Middle East, and it may have originated in North Africa.

The worker is variable in size, from in length, and color, from light yellow to darker brownish yellow, but usually with a "chocolate" abdomen. It has a square head and 12-segmented antennae with club-like tips. Each mandible has three large teeth and a much smaller fourth tooth. The body is mostly smooth and shiny with erect setae.

The queen ant is between long and tawny in color with a brown abdomen. The head is more rectangular. The setae on the front part of the body are more curved and those on the abdomen are more flat than erect.

This species is similar to "Trichomyrmex robustior" and "Trichomyrmex mayri", which are darker in color, and "M. latinode", which has five teeth per mandible instead of four.

The colonies of this species are polygyne, having multiple queens. Colonies can be established in trees, in the soil, or inside buildings. They have been found in potted plants, lawns, and irrigated fields. In cooler climates, especially outside the tropics, colonies are often found in heated buildings. The ant has been known to nest inside power sockets and computers.

Workers forage slowly, traveling in narrow trails. It is a generalist species in terms of diet, gathering living and dead insects,
insect eggs, nectar, seeds, and almost any food item available in households. In trials of baits, the ant was most attracted to soybean oil and white bread, and clearly preferred peanut butter over honey. This ant tends sap-sucking insects to retrieve their honeydew, but it does not have the strong mutualistic relationship with these insects that many other ants do.

In some regions this is a major pest species. Foraging workers chew through non-nutritive materials, such as fabric, rubber, and plastic. They have been observed chewing up tires and polystyrene cups. They can damage cables and electrical insulation, causing malfunctions in electrical equipment and telecommunications systems. The ant has been known to short out the ignition systems in cars and has been responsible for car and house fires.

The ant sometimes attacks living animals and people, inflicting painful bites. People have complained of being attacked by swarms while sleeping in bed, and the ant may bite sleeping babies and children. A researcher describing a laboratory infestation in 1922 reported that the ants killed a number of caged lab rats and attacked the resident scientists, "biting out small pieces of skin" and delivering enough bites to one man to knock him unconscious for a short time. Residents of Cape Verde call it the "ninja ant" because of the species' silent aggression toward humans.

Early introductions of the ant came by sea. It was infesting ships and harassing steamer passengers by 1922. Today it is sometimes also transported by airplane. Shipments of many kinds of freight can contain nests, including containers, produce, lumber, live plants, and electrical equipment. In 2005, a man unknowingly brought the ant home to New Zealand from Fiji, where he had purchased an iPod. The packaging was thought to contain an active nest.

While it is considered to be invasive, it rarely has negative effects on native fauna or habitat. It most often invades urban areas and it is not generally a dominant or competitive species in ant communities.


</doc>
<doc id="41067391" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067391" title="Gugum Gumilar">
Gugum Gumilar

Gugum Gumilar (born on August 15, 1994) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Semen Padang in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067392" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067392" title="Mullivaikal Muttram">
Mullivaikal Muttram

The Mullivaikkal Memorial or Mullivaikkal Muttram is a memorial dedicated to the Tamils who were massacred by the Sri Lankan army during the final phase of war between Tamil Eelam freedom fighters(LTTE) and Sri Lankan armed forces at Mullivaikkal in 2009. It is located in the Thanjavur District of Tamil Nadu State of the Indian sub-continent. The Mullivaikal memorial was inaugurated on 6 November 2013.

It was built by Tamil nationalist leader Pazha Nedumaran and the World Tamil Confederation Trust he heads.

The construction of the memorial had begun in 15 November 2010 and The foundation stone was laid by Vaiko and Nallakannu. It was originally intended to be just a memorial pillar, but with increasing desecrations of the Tamil memorials in Sri Lanka, it was decided to be made into a memorial to leave a trace of the bloody civil strife that killed Tamils in Sri Lanka in the pages of history.

The construction of the memorial was commissioned by the "Ulaga Tamil Peravai"(World Tamil Confederation), and was supervised by Pazha Nedumaran, the founder and the chief of the Confederation as well as the Tamil National Movement.

According to Nedumaran,
Funds to build the memorial were raised from various sources, says Nedumaran. The land for the memorial and a major portion of the capital cost was donated by noted Tamil activist M Natarajan (a student protester against anti-hindhi movement Tamil Nadu), Chief editor of Tamilarasi magazine.

The inauguration of the memorial took place on 6 November 2013, two days ahead of the originally scheduled date. The inauguration saw the participation of several leading politicians and activists of the state, such as Nallakannu(CPI), Vaiko Mdmk Chief, Seeman(Chief co-ordinator of the Naam Tamilar Katchi), SP Udayakumar(Kudankulam activist) and Pon Radhakrishnan(BJP).

The Mullivaikkal Muttram has come into shape through contributions of sculptors and artists from far and wide.

The sculptures have been fashioned based on the line drawings rendered by artist Veera Santhanam and have been carved out by Mamallapuram Sthapathi Murugan and his team. Hundreds of sculptors from across the state carved stone to raise the memorial without taking a fee, according to Nedumaran.

A beautiful stone sculpture dedicated to "Tamil Pavai"(Tamil Mother) holding a lamp commemorating the people who lost their lives at Mullivaikal, constitutes the central part of the memorial. The statue carved out of a single stone weighs more than 60 tonne and is mounted on a 15-feet pedestal. The Pavai is representative of the best of Tamil womanhood, culture and ethos.
Beneath the Tamil Mother Goddess statue, soil which is blood soaked from mulivaikal kept in two glass vessels.Pupil pay respect to the glass vessel to honor the sacrifice made by eelam people and eelam freedom fighters(LTTE).

Two friezes each 55 feet long and 10 feet tall stand on the either side of the Pavai. One of them showcases the 20 young men in Tamil Nadu such as Abdul rahoof, Muthukumaran,Murugadasan,Pallapatti.Ravi who had self-immolated in support of Tamil Eelam. The other frieze represents the people who had died during the fourth Eelam war.
Sculptures which are spread throughout the memorial, depict the teary stories of the Eezham Tamils, from the Burning of Jaffna library in 1983, to the mass massacres they had endured. The sculptures show heart-rending images of sencholai -school children massacre, sufferings of Internally displaced people in IDP camps in menik farm and in IDP camps of kilinoichi, cluster bombing & phosphorus bombing by Sri Lankan army in no fire zone, wailing mothers, broken limbs, guns and dead bodies.
Some sculptures also portray the peaceful lives Eezham Tamils led in the island nation, and depict their various cultural identities including the national bird and the national tree of Tamil Eelam.

There is a sculpture for Charles Antony (approx 24 years old) and Balachandran (12 years old) who died during 2009 civil war. Balachandran was purposefully shot dead by Sri Lankan army.

Behind the "Pavai" is a building that houses portrait and photo galleries. Portraits of the people who lost their lives in the Eelam wars are on display here, among them Tamil Tigers chief Velupillai Prabhakaran’s parents, Parvathiammal and Thiruvenkatam Velupillai and his two sons, Charles Anthony and Balachandran, LTTE ideologue Anton Balasingham, Tamilchelvan, Thileepan, Annai Bhoopathi, Kittu, Balraj, Sivakumaran, Malathi, Miller, Angayarkanni among others.

A photo gallery at the memorial's Conference hall houses hundreds of photos of those who dedicated their lives for the cause of Tamil language.The Galleries also exhibit photos of Tamil kings like pandara vanniyan - Vanni Tamil eelam, sangiliyan - Jaffna Tamil eelam, Kattabomman, Puli Thevan, Velu Nachiyar, Sethupathy, Maruthu Brothers, Theeran Chinamalai who resisted colonial rule. Other photos on display are those of the Tamil scholars and artistes including non-Tamils who have contributed for the development of the language.

The Mullivaikal Muttram complex is spread out on a 1.75-acre plot at Vilar, a village situated 5 km from Thanjavur on the Thanjavur-Tiruchirappalli national highway.

Buses which ply to Vilar from old bus station of Thanjavur are the main sources of public transport. Memorial can be easily accessed from Anna Nagar market of Thanjavur.



</doc>
<doc id="41067393" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067393" title="Huiberdina Krul">
Huiberdina Krul

Huiberdina Krul-van der Nolk van Gogh (22 May 1922 – 5 December 1994) was a Dutch gymnast. She competed at the 1952 Summer Olympics in all artistic gymnastics events and finished in 6th place in the team portable apparatus and in 14th place in team all-round.


</doc>
<doc id="41067402" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067402" title="Numerical solution of the convection–diffusion equation">
Numerical solution of the convection–diffusion equation

The convection–diffusion equation describes the flow of heat, particles, or other physical quantities in situations where there is both diffusion and convection or advection. For information about the equation, its derivation, and its conceptual importance and consequences, see the main article convection–diffusion equation. This article describes how to use a computer to calculate an approximate numerical solution of the discretized equation, in a time-dependent situation.

In order to be concrete, this article focuses on "heat flow", an important example where the convection–diffusion equation applies. However, the same mathematical analysis works equally well to other situations like particle flow.

A general discontinuous finite element formulation is needed. The unsteady convection–diffusion problem is considered, at first the known temperature T is expanded into a Taylor series with respect to time taking into account its three components. Next, using the convection diffusion equation an equation is obtained from the differentiation of this equation.

The following convection diffusion equation is considered here

In the above equation, four terms represents transience, convection, diffusion and a source term respectively, where

The equation above can be written in the form

where is the diffusion coefficient.

A solution of the transient convection–diffusion equation can be approximated through a finite difference approach, known as the finite difference method (FDM).

An explicit scheme of FDM has been considered and stability criteria are formulated. In this scheme, temperature is totally dependent on the old temperature (the initial conditions) and , a weighting parameter between 0 and 1. Substitution of gives the explicit discretization of the unsteady conductive heat transfer equation.

where

These inequalities set a stringent maximum limit to the time step size and represents a serious limitation for the explicit scheme. This method is not recommended for general transient problems because the maximum possible time step has to be reduced as the square of .

In implicit scheme, the temperature is dependent at the new time level . After using implicit scheme, it was found that all coefficients are positive. It makes the implicit scheme unconditionally stable for any size of time step. This scheme is preferred for general purpose transient calculations because of its robustness and unconditional stability. The disadvantage of this method is that more procedures are involved and due to larger , truncation error is also larger.

In the Crank–Nicolson method, the temperature is equally dependent on and . It is a second-order method in time and this method is generally used in diffusion problems.

This time step limitation is less restricted than the explicit method. The Crank–Nicolson method is based on the central differencing and hence it is second-order accurate in time.

Unlike the conduction equation (a finite element solution is used), a numerical solution for the convection-diffusion equation has to deal with the convection part of the governing equation in addition to diffusion. When the Peclet number (Pe) exceeds a critical value, the spurious oscillations result in space and this problem is not unique to finite elements as all other discretization techniques have the same difficulties. In a finite difference formulation, the spatial oscillations are reduced by a family of discretization schemes like upwind scheme. In this method, the basic shape function is modified to obtain the upwinding effect. This method is an extension of runge kutta discontinuous for a convection diffusion equation.
For time dependent equations, a different kind of approach is followed. The finite difference scheme has an equivalent in the finite element method (Galerkin method). Another similar method is the characteristic Galerkin method (which uses an implicit algorithm). For scalar variables, above two methods are identical.



</doc>
<doc id="41067431" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067431" title="Pat McGee Trail">
Pat McGee Trail

The Pat McGee Trail is a rail trail in Cattaraugus County, New York, United States, named for Patricia McGee (1934-2005).

Pat McGee was an area legislator of Cattaraugus County who lived in Franklinville, New York, and the trail was named in her memory. McGee served as a member of the New York State Assembly and as a New York State Senator for many years.

The trail path lies entirely on a railbed that was used by the New York and Lake Erie Railroad from 1978 to 1990 and, before that, by the Erie Railroad and the Erie Lackawanna Railroad. The existence of the railroad was the primary impetus for the relocation of the county seat of Cattaraugus County to Little Valley. The closure of the Cattaraugus Cutlery Company in 1963 and a factory most recently used by King Windows in the 1980s rendered the railroad of little use to Little Valley, and in 1990 the New York and Lake Erie truncated the rail service to its current end at Setterstix in Cattaraugus.

The Cattaraugus Local Development Corporation acquired the railbed several years after the railroad's closure and removed the rails and ties. Under the preliminary name "Southern Tier Area Rails to Trails" (START), the trail opened for public use in the early 2000s.

The trail, which was formally dedicated in June 2005 (shortly after McGee's death), includes five trailheads with its main trailhead being located in Little Valley, New York. The trail parallels New York State Route 353 and, in its southern half, the Little Valley Creek. As of 2013, the trail stretches for more than 12 miles, and connects seven municipalities in the area, running between County Route 6 in the town of New Albion (less than a mile south of the Cattaraugus village line) and the boundary of the city of Salamanca. The Finger Lakes Trail (a section of the North Country Trail) intersects the Pat McGee Trail at Woodworth Hollow Road in the hamlet of Elkdale; since a 2017 reroute of the Finger Lakes Trail, it now shares as wrong-way concurrency with the McGee trail from Woodworth Hollow north to the Elkdale State Forest for a distance of .

The trail is open to pedestrian, horseback and bicycle traffic during the spring, summer and autumn months and snowmobile traffic in the winter months when conditions permit. Other than snowmobiles, the use of motorized off-road vehicles (except for trail maintenance staff) is prohibited.


</doc>
<doc id="41067449" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067449" title="Muhammad Radikal Idealis">
Muhammad Radikal Idealis

Muhammad Radikal Idealis (born July 1, 1991) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persatu Tuban in the Liga 2.


</doc>
<doc id="41067450" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067450" title="Mamadou Konate (footballer)">
Mamadou Konate (footballer)

Mamadou Konate (born 10 March 1985) is an Ivorian footballer who currently plays for Ekenäs IF in the Finnish second tier Ykkönen. He has previously played for Tricase in the Italian Serie C and for AC Oulu in the Finnish top division Veikkausliiga.


</doc>
<doc id="41067463" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067463" title="Peabody Mansion">
Peabody Mansion

The Peabody Mansion is the former home of former Colorado governor James Hamilton Peabody. It was built on the corner of 4th and River, now 4th and Royal Gorge Boulevard (U.S. Highway 50) in Cañon City, Colorado. The mansion is a red brick Victorian two-story and is the current home of the Cañon City Chamber of Commerce.


</doc>
<doc id="41067468" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067468" title="Jules Haime">
Jules Haime

Jules Haime (28 March 1824, Tours – 28 September 1856, Paris) was a French geologist, paleontologist and zoologist known for his research of coral.

After studying medicine in Tours, he focused his energies towards natural history. Subsequently, he relocated to Paris, where he came under the influence of zoologist Henri Milne-Edwards. In 1855 he became a professor of natural history at the Lycée Napoléon in Paris. In January 1856 (several months prior to his death at age 32) he was named vice-president of the Société géologique de France.

He collaborated with Milne-Edwards on the following studies of coral:
Other noteworthy efforts associated with Haime include:


</doc>
<doc id="41067477" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067477" title="Take the Break">
Take the Break

Take the Break was an early United States television series which aired from 1951 to 1953. A 30-minute series produced by New York City station WABD (flagship station of the DuMont Television Network), the series was a disc jockey show with Don Russell. The series also appears to have been shown on WAAM-TV in Baltimore. It is not known if it was shown on other DuMont affiliates.


</doc>
<doc id="41067478" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067478" title="Eky Taufik">
Eky Taufik

Eky Taufik Febriyanto (born on February 15, 1991) is an Indonesian footballer who plays for Liga 1 club Persela Lamongan as a full-back.


</doc>
<doc id="41067497" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067497" title="Malaiyoor Mambattiyan">
Malaiyoor Mambattiyan

Malaiyoor Mambattiyan (literally, Man with shovel from Malaiyoor) is a 1983 Tamil-language Indian vigilante film directed by Rajasekhar, starring Thiagarajan, Saritha and Silk Smita. The film became a blockbuster and established Thigarajan as a star.

The film was remade in Hindi by Rajasekhar himself as "Gangvaa" with Rajinikanth and Shabana Azmi in the lead. Later in 2011, Thiagarajan remade this film with his son Prashanth, titled as "Mambattiyan".

There is a group of youngsters in the village headed by Mambattiyan, who lead life in a forest by robbing the rich and distributing the wealth to the poor; thus Mambattiyan becomes the local Robin Hood.

Thiagarajan was inspired to make a film on the bandit after he got to hear folk song praising the man for helping the village and hailed as "true Robin Hood".
The music was composed by Ilaiyaraaja. The songs "Chinnai Ponnu Selai" and "Kaattu Vazhi" were well received and was later reused in its 2011 remake.


</doc>
<doc id="41067501" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067501" title="Mumbai-Bangalore economic corridor">
Mumbai-Bangalore economic corridor

The Bengaluru-Mumbai Economic Corridor (BMEC) is a proposed economic corridor in India between Mumbai and Bangalore. The corridor is spread across the states of Karnataka and Maharashtra and passes through major cities such as Davangere, Chitradurga, Hubballi-Dharwad, Belagavi, Solapur, Sangli, Satara and Pune. The overall length of the corridor is around 1,000 km and covers an area of around 143,000 km. The corridor is delineated around the existing National Highway 4 (NH4) (which connects Bangalore to Mumbai), the existing Bangalore-Mumbai railway line and the Dabhol-Bangalore Natural Gas Pipeline.

The Indian government aims to generate an investment over from this corridor and expects it to create 2.5 million jobs.

During the India-United Kingdom summit in November 2013, the Indian and British governments agreed to undertake a joint feasibility study on the project. The DMICDC and the UK Trade and Investment (UKTI) were appointed as the nodal agencies for the project, representing the two sides respectively. The DMICDC floated a tender to appoint a consultant for the project in November 2013, awarded the contract to a joint venture between Egis India Consulting Engineers Pvt. Ltd., ile-de-France and CRISIL Risk & Infrastructure Solutions Limited on 14 February 2014. The feasibility study was financed by the Government of India.

The government has envisaged at least four new cities to boost manufacturing activity across the corridor for which the detailed plan is yet to work out.



</doc>
<doc id="41067507" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067507" title="Peter Beveridge">
Peter Beveridge

Peter Beveridge (24 June 1829 – 4 October 1885) was a grazier and author in colonial Australia.

Beveridge was born at Dunfermline, Fife, Scotland, and went to Victoria ten years later with his father, who engaged in pastoral pursuits near the township of Beveridge, to which the family gave their name. In 1845 Mr. Peter Beveridge took up country on the lower Murray River, settling at Tyntyndyer, some ten miles below what is now Swan Hill. Here for twenty-three years he made a careful study of the habits and customs of the then numerous aborigines of the Lower Murray and Riverine districts. The result of his observations was embodied in a work entitled "," published posthumously in 1889. Beveridge, who latterly resided at French Island, died at Woodburn, near Kilmore, Victoria, Australia.


</doc>
<doc id="41067510" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067510" title="Logging as a service">
Logging as a service

Logging as a service (LaaS) is an IT architectural model for centrally ingesting and collecting any type of log files coming from any given source or location; such as servers, applications, devices etc. The files are "normalized" or filtered for reformatting and forwarding to other dependent systems to be processed as “native” data, which can then be managed, displayed and ultimately disposed of according to a predesignated retention schedule based on any number of criteria.

In an enterprise situation, the IT datacenter becomes the hub for all log files and normalization. In a managed service provider (MSP) environment, the log sources would be coming from applications outside the enterprise but still hosted and managed by the MSP as needed.

Under this model, the IT datacenter acts as the "private cloud" under the concept of cloud computing to provision the logs to various stakeholders within the organization for future forensics or analysis to identify risks, patterns of activity or predict behaviors based on the data collected within the logs. Just as IT becomes the "hub" of the service, the stakeholders become the beneficiaries of the centralized data in the form of alerts, reports or any periphery applications for predictive analysis or insight from big data through graphical display.


</doc>
<doc id="41067513" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067513" title="Wabash County Courthouse (Illinois)">
Wabash County Courthouse (Illinois)

The Wabash County Courthouse is a historic governmental building in downtown Mount Carmel, Illinois, United States. Built in the late nineteenth century as the fifth courthouse in Wabash County, it has experienced a series of extensive remodelling projects that have left it with virtually nothing of the original building.

When Edwards County was formed in 1814, Palmyra was named its first county seat; at the time, the county's boundaries embraced nearly half of the present-day state of Illinois, substantial parts of modern Wisconsin, and some parts of the Upper Peninsula of Michigan as far north as the Canada–US border. Palmyra's tenure in this position was short-lived, as the growing population in the county's western portion sparked a county seat war in 1824: violence nearly erupted when the county seat was moved to Albion, but peace was restored when the two sides agreed to work together to convince the Illinois General Assembly to divide Edwards County into two separate counties. This goal was accomplished in December 1824, with Palmyra and other eastern parts of the county being placed within the boundaries of the new Wabash County. However, the law moved the county seat several miles away to Centerville, although within a few years the seat had again been moved, this time to Mount Carmel.

No purpose-built courthouse was ever built in Palmyra; throughout the years that it was the county seat, county officials rented the house of Gervase Hazleton, beginning with a rent of $8 but lowering their annual rent to just 6¼¢ for the entirety of the second year.

The second courthouse in the county, and the first after the county's creation, was built in Centerville in 1826. County commissioners contracted with miller Moses Bedell in September 1825 for the construction of a frame courthouse, two stories tall and measuring . After the courthouse was finished nine months later, Bedell was paid $715 for the project. As Centerville soon began to fall into oblivion, county officials decided in 1829 to move to the flourishing settlement of Mount Carmel, and the old courthouse was abandoned.

No substantial opposition arose to the idea of moving the county seat to Mount Carmel, except for that of expense, but local resident Scoby Stewart obviated the opposition by offering in March 1829 to donate $4,000 for the construction of a courthouse in the city by March 1831. County officials readily accepted his offer and began soliciting bids for the location. Constructed with a square plan, the two-story building featured a cupola at the center of its hip roof. Entrances were on different sides of the exterior, which was divided into three bays on some sides and two on others. This building lasted until 1857, in which year it was destroyed by fire, along with virtually all of the official records stored therein.

Contractor Hiram Bell completed a replacement courthouse by the end of 1857 on the site of the previous building. This building, which cost the county $6,770, was a Greek Revival building with an appearance resembling a church with a substantial wing. This building remained until June 1877, when a tornado struck Mount Carmel and destroyed most of the business district; the storm was so fierce that state legislators appropriated $15,000 in relief funds, and it arose so fast that county officials were unaware of its presence until it began knocking down the building, interrupting a routine meeting that they were conducting.

Plans were created for the construction of the current courthouse as early as June 1879, but the final contract waited nearly two years to be signed. It was built primarily as a brick building, although stone was used for the water table and windowsills, and extensive woodworking was placed in the interior. Towers were constructed, topped with iron fence and accessible via trapdoors from within the building. The resulting Second Empire structure featured three stories of interior space under all but the lowest sections of its mansard roof.

During 1959, county officials spent large sums of money on an extensive remodelling project, followed by another project in 1963; the resulting two-story building features a main entrance inside an ell, a few tall rectangular windows on all sides, and a flat roof. Although the current courthouse is technically the same building as the one constructed in 1881, absolutely nothing remains of the original construction, and the courthouse's record in the Illinois Historic Sites Survey Inventory refers to it strictly as "2 story ugly brick (recent)" without any additional comment.

Located adjacent to the courthouse on its southern side is a war memorial featuring a soldier who stands atop a pedestal. Placed during the second half of the nineteenth century, the memorial was temporarily removed for cleaning in 2007, but it was soon returned to its normal place.

 


</doc>
<doc id="41067522" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067522" title="Roy Budiansyah">
Roy Budiansyah

Roy Budiansyah (born on July 17, 1990) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persiba Balikpapan in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067529" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067529" title="Museum of Colorado Prisons">
Museum of Colorado Prisons

The Museum of Colorado Prisons is located off U.S. Highway 50 in Cañon City, Colorado. It is housed in a former state women's prison and is directly east of the Colorado Territorial Correctional Facility (Old Max).

The Museum of Colorado Prisons started operation on June 18, 1988.

The idea for a museum was conceived by a group of Fremont County residents. The project began in the early 1980s, with volunteers who sought obtain permission to use the former Women's Prison building, which dated back to 1935. The building is adjacent to the east wall of the Colorado Territorial Correctional Facility, an active prison since 1871. The Colorado State Legislature approved the request on April 24, 1986. Canon City in turn granted a 99-year lease to the Foundation to operate a museum in the cell house.

A Board of Directors was formed on October 15, 1986. The board set about to raise funds for the museum. The costs included stabilizing the building, upgrading the heating and lighting systems, and adding features that would be accessible for disabled visitors. The museum was able to raise money through grants, lottery proceeds, donations and loans.

The cell house was renovated in June 1988. Its opening coincided with the summer tourist season. The cells were restored with a view to preserving the original feel of the cell house from its days as of housing inmates. Artifacts of the Colorado Prison System from 1871 to the present day were collected and catalogued by volunteers.

The Museum was established with a view to collect, preserve, conserve, exhibit, and interpret the historical heritage of the Colorado Prison System. The Museum was also opened to serve as an incentive for historical research, education, and scholarly writings on the subject. It was equally meant to be a means to deter criminal activity.



</doc>
<doc id="41067543" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067543" title="List of archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois">
List of archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois

This is a list of archaeological sites on the National Register of Historic Places in Illinois.

Historic sites in the United States qualify to be listed on the National Register of Historic Places by passing one or more of four different criteria; Criterion D permits the inclusion of proven and potential archaeological sites. More than eighty different sites in Illinois are listed under this criterion, including both Native American and European sites. This list includes all properties in Illinois that qualify under this criterion.




</doc>
<doc id="41067560" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067560" title="Nations to Flames">
Nations to Flames

Nations to Flames is the fourth studio album by American post-metal band A Storm of Light. It was released by Southern Lord on 17 September 2013. The album has been noted for its shift from the post-rock of its predecessor towards a sound that more prominently highlights the band's industrial and doom influences.

"Nations to Flames" has been described as amongst the most aggressive and fast-paced albums in A Storm of Light's discography. Guitarist and vocalist Josh Graham acknowledged that this has been part of a larger shift for the band:

Graham's approach to vocals on "Nations to Flames" drew comparisons to Killing Joke's Jaz Coleman and departed from the clean singing characteristic of his past approach. Graham confirmed that his approach was developed when the band played songs off of "Nations to Flames" durings its tour with Converge prior to entering the recording studio. During that tour, Graham said that he "realized that what we needed was more aggression and somewhat more atonal vocals," which he described as "more akin to Motörhead than Killing Joke".

The concept underlying the album is, according to Graham, a tale of "one possible future of human failure [involving] the collapse of society due to overpopulation and pollution". He further detailed the concept as a story humanity "realiz[ing] too late that the importance of their government, their nationalism, and their religions meant nothing in relation to the damage we are inflicting on our planet." The concept extends to the album cover art, which portrays what Graham describes as "a small surviving group of revolutionaries [who] are biding time until their own demise. The body and the flag represent humanity, and are being ironically sacrificed to the earth...more fire, more smoke, more pollution. They know now that their revolution/realization happened too late, and that the earth will soon be on its own."

Further to the concept, the CD insert references Margaret Atwood's 2009 short fiction, "Time Capsule Found On the Dead Planet", as suggested reading. This piece was written by Atwood as part of the global warming mitigation campaign. 

"Nations to Flames" generally received favourable reviews, with most critics commenting upon the stylistic departure from the band's previous album. Ray Van Horn, Jr. wrote for Blabbermouth that the album was "reflective more of industrial and splatterpunk", yet the album "is still joined at the hip by those core values of punched-up doom and explorative embellishments". Natalie Zina Walschots praised the album in Exclaim! as the band's "best release to date", and also suggested that "the melancholic and atmospheric" post-rock elements had been "burned away by the mechanical heat of industrial and crushed by the relentless weight of doom". Describing the album as "the soundtrack to our damnation", Matt Hinch described the album for About.com as a "lush, fulfilling and diverse affair". However, David Maine was more critical of the album in Popmatters, suggesting that "listener fatigue" diminishes the album concept, with "any kind of considered commentary on the society in which we live is lost amid the layers of distortion and double-kick drumming".






</doc>
<doc id="41067568" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067568" title="Fernando Chaves">
Fernando Chaves

Fernando Chaves Reyes (February 13, 1902 – 1999) was a novelist, essayist, and journalist. He was the first Ecuadorian writer to depict an indigenous theme in his writings.

Chaves was Ecuador's ambassador to El Salvador, Ecuador and Nicaragua.

Chaves' novel "Plata y bronce" (Silver and Bronze) (1927) was the first indigenist novel in Ecuador. Chaves was influenced by the Bolivian novelist Alcides Arguedas, who in 1919 wrote the indigenist novel "Raza de bronze" (Race of Bronze). Chávez' novel influenced other future 
Chaves was born in Otavalo. He was married to Magdalena Marie Ribreau, who died of a stroke in 1982.

In 1991 he received the National Grand Cross of the Order of Merit.

Chaves died in 1999.

Novels

Non fiction


</doc>
<doc id="41067571" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067571" title="Polyergus rufescens">
Polyergus rufescens

Polyergus rufescens is a species of slave-making ant native to southern Europe and parts of Asia, commonly referred to as the European Amazon ant or as the slave-making ant. It is an obligatory social parasite, unable to feed itself or look after the colony and reliant on ants of another species to undertake these tasks. To replenish these servant ants, it raids nearby ant colonies and carries home pupae and larvae, and these are reared to provide future workers for the colony. A newly mated female "P. rufescens" needs to make its way into one of these "host" nests, kill the host queen, and be accepted by the host workers in her place.

"P. rufescens" workers in western and southwestern Europe are dark red, while eastern specimens are more orange-red. Darker ants often have a purplish or brownish tinge to their gasters and appendages. Morphologically, ants of this species are similar to the Mexican "Polyergus topoffi", but have narrower heads and petioles and the first tergites of their gasters are more hairy. The total length of this ant is .

"P. rufescens" is native to parts of Europe including Spain, France, the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Austria, Bulgaria, Italy, Croatia, Serbia, and Slovenia. Its range also extends into Asia as far east as the mountains of Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, and western China. Its habitat is typically open, sparse grassland, wherever its host species are to be found. The host species vary in different parts of the range and include "F. cunicularia", "F. fusca", "F. rufibarbis", "F. clara", "F. gagates", and "F. cinerea". The main host species in the eastern part of the range is "F. clara" and in general, the species chosen is the one most abundant in the locality or that can be raided with the least mortality.

This species is known as the slave-making ant because, like "Formica sanguinea", it raids the nests of other species of ant in the subgenus "Serviformica" and carries their brood back to the dulotic nest (from Greek δοῦλος "doulos", "slave"). A mature "Polyergus" colony always originated as a colony of the slave species (the hosts), and the worker population is maintained by the raiding sorties of the Amazon ants. In the dulotic nest, the "Formica" workers usually outnumber the Amazon ant population by at least five to one and in general, the behaviour of the mixed colony resembles that of a large colony of the host species. Molecular analysis has shown that although the two slave-making ant genera "Polyergus" and "Rossomyrmex" are closely related, they are even more closely related to their respective host species and the enslaving behaviour has evolved independently.

Pierre Huber, the son of the Swiss entomologist François Huber, studied the behaviour of these ants. The "P. rufescens" workers perform no work apart from nest raiding. So reliant are they on their slaves that without their help, they are incapable of feeding themselves or rearing the young. Huber experimentally put 30 of the slave-making ants in a box with some of their larvae, some pupae, a little soil, and a generous supply of honey. Within two days, half of these ants were dead, presumably of starvation. He then introduced one slave ant into the box. It very soon "established order, formed a chamber in the earth, gathered together the larvae, extricated several young ants that were ready to quit the condition of pupae, and preserved the life of the remaining Amazons."
Winged males and females known as alates emerge from the colonies in summer. Some colonies produce alates of both sexes, and in these the males emerge and fly off some days before the females do. Nuptial flights involving both males and females often occur, but males usually depart from any particular nest first and this prevents inbreeding. Observations on the ground show that the female makes certain movements of her mandibles just before mating, and this is thought to release a sexually attractive pheromone. Some females copulate immediately after the nuptial flight, others mate on the ground near the dulotic nest without taking to the air, and a few mate during the course of a slave raid. The female alates lose their wings within a few minutes of mating, and unless involved in a raid, then hide in the undergrowth near their nests. Others set out alone, probably following the trail of a previous slave raid, and are greeted with hostility at any potential target nest they encounter. The majority join a slave raid within a few days of mating, but only some of these attempt to infiltrate the target colony, others returning home with the raiders. Some winged females also accompany the raiders, and a few of these have been observed returning home carrying a cocoon.

A newly mated female is unable to found a new colony unaided because she is not able to feed herself or care for her first brood. Instead, she enters the nest of another species of ants. She may join a column of raiding ants and use the panic and confusion surrounding their attack on the target colony to infiltrate the nest. She emits a secretion from the Dufour's gland on her abdomen, named after its discoverer, Léon Jean Marie Dufour, which includes a pheromone which subdues the attacked ants and makes them less aggressive. She seeks out the colony's queen and kills her by biting her with her piercing mandibles. With their queen gone, the behaviour of the resident ants changes and their attacks lessen in ferocity and alternate with periods of grooming the new arrival. Within a few hours, the usurping queen is accepted and is surrounded by submissive workers that groom her and feed her.



</doc>
<doc id="41067572" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067572" title="Yusar Fandy Djavar">
Yusar Fandy Djavar

Yusar Fandy (born on January 11, 1987) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persiba Balikpapan in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067578" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067578" title="The Sacred Taking">
The Sacred Taking

"The Sacred Taking" is the eighth episode of the of the anthology television series "American Horror Story", which premiered on December 4, 2013, on the cable network FX. The episode was written by Ryan Murphy and directed by Alfonso Gomez-Rejon.

In this episode, Fiona (Jessica Lange) must take her life in order to undertake a ritual to find the next Supreme. This episode is rated TV-MA (LV). Angela Bassett, Gabourey Sidibe, Danny Huston, and Patti LuPone guest star as Marie Laveau, Queenie, the Axeman, and Joan Ramsey, respectively.

Madison and Zoe find Queenie under an overpass, torturing a homeless man) with her powers after he threatened her. Queenie tells them that she is now practicing voodoo, after Marie Laveau convinced her that the witches are not true friends. Madison taunts her, and Zoe tells her that the structure of the Coven is changing. Unfazed, Queenie uses a dagger and cuts out the man's still-beating heart. She informs them that the man is a pedophile and Marie needs a dark heart to strengthen Queenie's powers with a spell. Queenie, still holding the beating heart, warns the witches that war is coming and that they're going to lose.

The Axeman asks Fiona to run away with him, but she doesn't want to be a burden to him. However, she wants to stay alive as long as possible, knowing her cancer is rapidly advancing from one of the girls obtaining her Supreme powers. Fiona just needs to figure out which one it is.

Luke's mother chastises him for visiting the girls at the Academy, for they are using the "Devil's magic". She says that he's completely "unclean", makes an enema, and forces him to strip. At the Academy, Nan hears his screams and wants to help him, but Cordelia wants her assistance in the plot against Fiona.

Zoe finds a freaked-out Misty at the door. In a flashback to Misty's cabin, Myrtle, still covered in her healing mud, has woken her about a man outside. Misty hears the cicadas have stopped making noise and flees, right before the man kicks in her cabin door and shoots her bed. At the Academy, Cordelia confirms Misty is a fellow witch needing protection by taking her hand and seeing her burning at the stake and resurrecting herself. Misty asks if her friend can stay and takes them to see a revived and almost-normal Myrtle in the greenhouse. Myrtle notes that resurrection is the most difficult spell of the Seven Wonders to accomplish, and believes Misty is the next Supreme.

The Coven prepares for the Sacred Taking ritual by wearing red robes and black lace veils. Zoe and Madison debate who is the next Supreme. Cordelia tells them being a Supreme isn't a gift but a burden. Misty says she doesn't want to be the Supreme, and Cordelia tells her that no one gets to choose, in the end whoever it is will be. Once Fiona dies, there will be a new Supreme. Cordelia explains the Sacred Taking ritual is invoked to protect the Coven in which a Supreme takes her own life to ensure the safety of the Coven, hastening the next Supreme. Madison points out that Fiona won't kill herself, and Cordelia responds not without a "push."

Fiona's health continues to deteriorate. She violently vomits in her bathroom, then finds Madison dancing around her bed. Madison claims to be the next Supreme by reviving herself and Fiona's punishment will be burning at the stake. She convinces Fiona to avoid that fate and swallow the handful of pills given to her. Madison tells Fiona to stop making herself and everybody else suffer. Fiona starts packing immediately after Madison leaves. Myrtle appears, telling her that Madison resurrected her. Fiona tells her she's not ready, that she's found a true love to take care of her. Myrtle casts an illusion of Fiona wasting away in a hospital bed, with the Axeman complaining about the smells and of how long Fiona is taking to die. Myrtle tells Fiona that she will die the same way she lived her life, alone and disappointed by everyone.

Out in the hallway, the girls disagree over who will be the next Supreme. When no one responds to Nan when she asks if they think she could be the Supreme, she storms out, saying you guys "suck balls" and goes across the street to Luke's house. Waiting in his car outside, Hank sees her. She finds Luke inside, bound and gagged in the closet.

In her room, Fiona prepares herself for death, with Myrtle's help. She asks Myrtle to look after Cordelia, claiming it her most terrible failure and "one that will torment her into eternity", takes a handful of pills and lays down on the bed. She asks Myrtle to hang her portrait in the spot she chose in the foyer and to not hang her in the basement with that "disgraced Russian witch". Myrtle takes some of Fiona's jewelry, then walks out. Fiona wakes up to a voice calling to her. Spalding tells her he wants to give her something to purge the pills, explaining why he could now speak and that he was murdered. She resists taking the ipecac, believing she was doing the right thing for the Coven for once. He implies she is taking the coward's way out. He then tells her she was duped by the others – Madison isn't dead, but isn't the next Supreme. Misty resurrected her. Fiona takes the ipecac, vomits the pills, and vows that she will avenge both Spalding's death and her own.

At Marie Laveau's, Queenie serves a caged Delphine LaLaurie a "jumpin' jack with cheese." Delphine asks Queenie what she did to deserve her betrayal, begging Queenie for release. Marie interrupts them and Queenie leaves. Delphine scoffs at Marie's taunts, pointing out she cannot die. Marie produces a large sword, mocking Delphine, saying the mistake you make is from a lack of imagination. Delphine responds by saying that she's not afraid of her and that she wouldn't give her that satisfaction as Marie hacks off Delphine's hand, warning that "we've only just begun."

Nan and Luke are prevented from leaving his house by his mother. He tells her that she cannot stop them. She threatens him, while a rifle laser appears on her and she is shot twice. Luke is also hit in the head, protecting Nan from the gunfire.

At the Academy, the witches wait for Fiona to die, but are surprised when she appears asking about the "swamp witch". Misty is across the street, as paramedics are tending to Luke. Fiona joins her and compels an officer to tell her what happened. He tells them Luke is wounded and the mother is dead. Fiona then challenges Misty to bring Joan Ramsey back. Outside, Cordelia finds a bullet, and her Second Sight shows its trajectory. She knows it was meant for witches. Inside, Misty revives Joan and collapses.

Meanwhile, Kyle has been secreted away in Zoe's room and she tells him they are under attack. She fears for his safety the most, and he professes his love for her, as Madison listens from the hallway and begins sobbing.

The next morning, Cordelia is concerned for Fiona's wrath, telling Fiona that she will not beg for forgiveness. Instead, Fiona admires the Coven's resilience and believes there is hope for its future. Cordelia then shows Fiona the silver bullet she found – a witch hunter is in New Orleans. Cordelia tells Fiona that she was glad Fiona was still with them when she found the bullet, saying the Coven needs their Supreme, now more than ever. With no servants to be found, Fiona answers the front doorbell, only to find a cardboard box on the porch. She scans it with magic, takes it inside and opens it. Inside is Delphine LaLaurie's head staring back at her, whispering for help.

Rotten Tomatoes reports an 81% approval rating, based on 16 reviews. The critical consensus reads, "The polished writing and creative direction turn "The Sacred Taking" into a more-than watchable transitional episode, speckled with touching, human moments." Emily VanDerWerff of "The A.V. Club" gave the episode a B rating, saying, ""The Sacred Taking" is "just" good enough to make me realize how much this season has been lacking, in ways both major and minor." Matt Fowler from IGN gave the episode a 7.6/10 rating, writing, """ is still wickedly watchable, but it does run in circles. Even more so than ""."

"The Sacred Taking" received a 2.2 18–49 ratings share and was watched by 4.07 million viewers in its original American broadcast, winning the night for cable.



</doc>
<doc id="41067587" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067587" title="Rudi Lubbers">
Rudi Lubbers

Rudolfus Josefus Maria "Rudie" Lubbers (born 17 August 1945) is a retired Dutch boxer who competed at the 1964 and 1968 Summer Olympics. In 1964 he finished ninth as light-heavyweight and in 1968 fifth as heavyweight.

Nationally, Lubbers won six light-heavyweight and two heavyweight amateur titles. In 1970, he turned professional, and in 1971 won a national heavyweight title, holding it until his retirement in 1981. Internationally, he unsuccessfully competed at several European championships. In 1973 he fought Muhammad Ali in Jakarta and managed to last all 12 rounds. In 1986, he was arrested in Portugal for drug trafficking and jailed for four years. After that he worked on funfairs (known as carnivals in standard U.S. English language) with his wife Ria, and eventually became homeless after she was declared bankrupt in 1999.

Below are the results of Rudi Lubbers, a Dutch light heavyweight boxer who competed at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics:



</doc>
<doc id="41067589" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067589" title="Intergenerational and Lifetime Transference of Attachment">
Intergenerational and Lifetime Transference of Attachment

There are multiple consequences of different attachment patterns that are formed in childhood development. This article will explore the way attachment patterns are formed, how parents pass on their attachment styles, long-term consequences of attachment patterns, and cross cultural attachment patterns.

The origins of infant attachment can be understood along several different axes: the level of sensitivity in the mother’s interactions with her child, the degree to which the mother is rejecting in her interactions with her child, and the level of activity in the mother’s interactions with her child. The current body of research on attachment theory suggests that these specific aspects of maternal behavior play a significant role in determining the attachment formed between mother and child both early in development and generally across time. Measures of these characteristics have predicted the type and degree of the infant-mother attachment formed.

Higher levels of sensitivity in maternal behavior, as defined by the speed at which the mother detects and responds to slight signals or changes in her infant’s behavior or environment, are more likely to result in the formation of a secure attachment. Analyses of interactions observed and measured at several stages during an extended period of infant development (one month, four months, and nine months) show that at all stages mothers of secure infants are more sensitively responsive than mothers of insecure infants, the lowest levels of sensitivity being observed in mother-infant pairs developing an insecure-resistant attachment specifically. High levels of rejecting behavior, as defined by the degree to which a mother affectionately interacts with her child, are more likely to result in the formation of insecure mother-infant attachments. At all three ages of measurement, highly rejecting mothers are more likely to have insecure-resistant one-year-olds, and the infants of mothers who were highly rejecting at nine months are more likely to display avoidance in Ainsworth’s Strange Situation experiment. High levels of activity in maternal interactions with the infant throughout the first year of development are more likely to result in the formation of a secure attachment. Of these factors, maternal sensitivity has been shown to be the most significant in determining the quality of the mother-infant attachment. Mothers who displayed the highest levels of overall sensitivity throughout the first year of development were more likely to have securely attached one-year olds exhibiting low levels of resistance and avoidance in the Strange Situation.

One’s attachment style shows its impacts on different aspects of their life including the attachment style of their children. Intergenerational attachment theory suggests that a mother’s representations of earlier attachment may influence the development of her infant’s attachment to her. Hypothetically, it is expected that a parent who had a secure attachment will most probably end up having a child with secure attachment. Bowlby was especially interested in intergenerational attachment styles. In the separation he states that individuals that have supportive parents grow up to be stable and self-reliant.

However, research has also shown that the perception of the parent’s earlier attachment style is more important than the attachment itself. The ways in which a mother considers her own historical relationship with her primary caregiver is central to the development of her own child’s attachment (Ainsworth & Bowlby, 1991; Main, 1990). Research conducted on this subject by Peter Fonagy, Howard Steele and Miriam Steele included a method where parents answered questions about their attachment histories in their early childhood by answering the Adult Attachment Interview. They also stated how those attachment styles influenced their relationship with their own children. Results have shown that autonomous-secure parents gave coherent account of early attachments whereas preoccupied parents emphasized mostly childhood memories that were about conflicts and dismissing parents were generally unable to identify their memories related to their early childhood attachment.

As children grow up, their attachment to their parents continues to evolve and play different roles in their everyday lives. One example of a persistent attachment that changes over the course of an individual’s life is the parental bond.

The most obvious way a parental attachment changes with age is that parents gradually move from being the care provider to their children to the recipient of care from their children. Because of this “role reversal,” parents experience a “gradual, unhappy relinquishment of autonomy.” However, the way adult children carry out their new caregiver role is also affected by the original attachment the parents formed with their children. This original attachment pattern can lead to many different results. For example, adult children who formed secure attachment patterns as children are more likely to provide high quality and loving care to their elderly parents than individuals with insecure attachments. Furthermore, individuals with insecure attachments are far more likely to abuse their role as caregiver and withhold care in order to manipulate their parents. Also, elderly parents with an insecure-avoidant pattern are less likely to seek care from their children when they are no longer self-sufficient. Insecure-ambivalent elderly parents are more likely to act in an overly clingy way when they require help. The consequence of this behavior is that their children tend to isolate themselves from their parents and do not react to their parents’ needs. These tendencies reveal that patterns of attachment can influence relationships from a very young age all the way to late adulthood.

Another far-reaching consequence of attachment patterns is the method in which adults form and maintain romantic relationships. According to Hazan and Shaver, adults respond to distress based on their experience with the way their environment meets their needs. Hazan and Shaver propose that there are three types of attachment: “consistently responsive, inconsistently responsive, or consistently unresponsive.” Anxious or ambivalent attachment patterns are brought about by extremely inconsistent relationships early in childhood. Adults who do not know if their environments will meet their needs often feel the need to compulsively test the levels of commitment from their partners. This can actually be counter-productive, as the relationships of insecure-ambivalent individual frequently fail.

Insecure avoidant attachment patterns are brought about by consistent unresponsiveness from an individual’s environment. Individuals with this pattern of attachment frequently struggle with developing secure and authentic relationships in adulthood due to their expectation that their needs will not be met in times of distress. This pattern also leads to tendencies of avoiding intimate relationships through shunning commitments, intense work schedules, and overly pessimistic views of relationships.

While numerous studies conducted in recent decades validate John Bowlby’s theory of attachment, many of these studies reflect trends in only one culture. Mary Ainsworth further specified the mechanics of Bowlby’s theory, when she developed the concepts of secure and insecure attachments. After seeing the results of how American children react to the Strange Situation experiment, where babies are separated and then reunited with their parents, Ainsworth proposed that secure attachment is the dominant response and that insecure attachments, both avoidant and resistant, are clear minorities. A fourth type of attachment, namely disorganized, has since also been accepted as a possible style, though it is rare. However, subsequent studies have shown that there are differences in the distribution of attachment types across cultures. For instance, German children are more likely to be classified as avoidant than children in the United States. Similarly Japanese and Israeli children are more likely to fall into the resistant category of insecure attachments than their American counterparts are. However, researchers have more recently argued that these intercultural differences are no more diverse than the intracultural differences found in diverse societies, such as the United States. 

One argument suggests that “in general, cross-cultural discussions of attachment theory and findings have proposed that there are large cross-cultural differences compared with intracultural differences; however, no empirical studies have addressed this issue.” In one study, researchers Marinus van IJzendoorn and Pieter Kroonenberg combined all the rates of the different types of attachment, which have been found in studies conducted throughout the world, to form the average global distribution of the different types of attachment. They found that the distribution in the United States, which Ainsworth first explored, is representative of the global distribution. However, an individual sample from a particular U.S. community is just as likely to reflect the distribution of a foreign country as it is to represent a typical U.S. sample. This study demonstrates that cross-cultural differences in attachment reflect local customs and not broader differences between countries. In all cultures, secure attachment seems to be preferred, insecure attachments are still present. While the levels of secure attachment may vary in particular cultures, there has not been any data which suggests the universality of attachment theory is invalid.

Since the cross-cultural variance in the transmission of attachment occurs at a local level, the family plays the crucial role in determining what attachment style a child will develop. In general, the more supportive an attachment figure is, the greater the likelihood that the child develops a secure attachment. In addition, “principal attachment figures can function more supportively when they themselves receive the support of others.” In general, the family is the most stable of all social relationships. For children, the family not only provides the primary attachment figure, but also a consistent (for better or worse) depiction of how relationships should develop. When children have grown up, they will utilize the relationship constructs which their family has demonstrated over the years.



</doc>
<doc id="41067591" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067591" title="Head (American Horror Story)">
Head (American Horror Story)

"Head" is the ninth episode of the of the anthology television series "American Horror Story", which premiered on December 11, 2013, on the cable network FX. The episode was written by Tim Minear and directed by Howard Deutch.

In this episode, Fiona (Jessica Lange) looks to form an alliance with Marie Laveau (Angela Bassett) while Cordelia (Sarah Paulson)'s attacker is revealed. Angela Bassett, Gabourey Sidibe, and Patti LuPone guest star as Marie Laveau, Queenie, and Joan Ramsey, respectively. This episode is rated TV-MA (LSV).

A young Hank Foxx is taught to hunt by his father in the Chattahoochee National Forest. With rifle in hand, Hank waits for his father to flush out their prey. Hank aims his rifle as a scared woman arrives in front of him. He hesitates shooting her and she flings a fireball toward him. His father pushes him out of the way, causing the man's arm to get scorched, and shoots the witch in the head. Hank apologizes, and his father tells him to show no mercy and to "never forget what they are".

Fiona carries Delphine's head in a box into Cornrow City and asks Marie about an alliance. When Marie shows no concern about the witch hunters, Fiona suggests they will eradicate the voodoo tribe after the witches are dead. Marie says she'll worry about that when the time comes and orders Queenie, who now works in the beauty parlor, to burn Delphine's head.

In the Academy's kitchen, Myrtle watches as Cordelia drops some eggs in an attempt to make breakfast. She asks Cordelia if she believes Myrtle blinded her. Myrtle recounts the day when young Cordelia first arrived at the Academy when Cordelia asked if Myrtle was now her mother. Cordelia knows Myrtle did not harm her.

Hank arrives at Delphi Trust in Atlanta, Georgia. With his father and David, he discusses the orders given to him to act as an information gatherer, not as a witch hunter. Hank is frustrated with his role and claims a successful hunt on his own. His father calls Hank sloppy, explaining how that "success" actually required his father to "clean up" the murder of Kaylee. Hank is shocked to learn that Delphi was behind the attack on Cordelia. His father reminds Hank that one day Cordelia will have to be "put down."

At the Academy, Myrtle prepares for a meeting with the Council of Witchcraft. Quentin and Cecily express regret over the "misunderstanding" that led to Myrtle's death, but marvel at her healed scars and ask about Misty's mud. Myrtle corrects them, saying Misty is an extraordinary witch, who had also been killed by those around her. Cecily raises her glass to toast Myrtle and becomes paralyzed, as does Quentin. Myrtle tells her guests that she gave them melon balls laced with monkshood, which made them into "human statues", revealing that she didn't invite them to chastise them, but to help out the Coven. She subsequently uses the melon baller to scoop out Cecily's left eye, then Quentin's right eye. Later, Cordelia wakes in her bed with her vision restored – now using Quentin and Cecily's eyes. Later, Cordelia realizes that she has lost the power of Second Sight.

Zoe and Madison arrive at the hospital to find Nan sitting outside Luke's room. His mother, Joan, will not let her in to see him. The three enter and Joan chastises them. Nan tells her that Luke says to calm down. She also mentions "Just a Closer Walk with Thee" that Joan used to sing to him when he broke his arm as an 8-year-old. At first, Joan dismisses the clairvoyance but soon sings the song at Luke's bedside while holding both his and Nan's hand.

Hank eats takeout food in his home. Wounds appear on his body and he convulses in odd angles on the floor. Marie has begun a voodoo doll ritual on him. A man kicks in his door and tells him he is feeling the wrath of broken promises. Hank's cell phone rings and the man answers it, holding it to Hank's ear. Marie tells him the witches die that night or the next needle will put a hole in his heart. Later, Hank arrives to see Cordelia has regained her sight and begs her forgiveness. She tells him that she has spoke to her lawyer and is filing for divorce and that his belongings are in an Academy closet.

In Luke's hospital room, Nan tells Joan that Luke says that God is judging his mother for killing his father. Joan maintains that the man died from anaphylaxis, but we see in flashback that Joan caused the anaphylaxis herself, putting bees into her husband's car and locking him in it. Luke continues to speak through Nan, revealing the knowledge that his father was leaving Joan for his lover Mrs. Marteaux, a woman from Joan's book club, an affair that predicated the murder. Joan accuses Nan of being deceitful and treacherous, forcing the young witch to leave.

Fiona gets a dog in order to give the Coven more protection and discovers Kyle in Zoe's bedroom. Fiona tells Kyle to leave and calls for the dog, but in a sideways allusion to "Of Mice and Men", as she leaves the room, she hears Kyle clumsily snap the dog's neck. As Zoe, Nan, and Madison return to the Academy, they find Kyle and Fiona playing gin rummy, with Kyle winning. The girls discover Fiona has "spruced up" Kyle, not simply to have a better card partner, but also to provide the Coven with a "guard dog" that will attack on command.

After failing to make Delphine understand her black heritage, Queenie plays videos of civil rights era news footage, accompanied by spirituals. LaLaurie appears to be affected by the music and is driven to tears by the images of civil rights abuse. Downstairs, Queenie takes her place at the salon's front desk, as Hank enters, armed with multiple high-powered guns. He storms in and begins shooting the voodoo tribe. He finds Marie as she attempts to teleport, but he manages to shoot her in the arm. Just as Hank is about to kill Marie, a wounded Queenie finds a handgun and shoots herself in the mouth, killing Hank and leaving her in an unknown state.

Hank's father is shown weeping over the images of his dead son. At the hospital, Luke wakes and accuses his mother of his father's murder. She tells him to go back to sleep, then smothers him with a pillow to keep the authorities from learning her dark secret. Meanwhile, Marie arrives at the Academy with her arm bandaged. She enters the Academy, and a knowing Fiona closes the door behind her.

Rotten Tomatoes reports a 77% approval rating, based on 13 reviews. The critical consensus reads, ""Head" churns out terrific dialogue and a series of surprising plot twists, even as the sheer number of narrative arcs and political themes induce a certain amount of viewer fatigue." Emily VanDerWerff of "The A.V. Club" gave the episode a C- rating, saying, "There's a lot of "Head" that sort of feels like it works, particularly in the closing passages, where the episode almost manages that "American Horror Story" thing where a bunch of disparate elements the series has been building all season come together in a giant gumbo of wackadoo... But then I look at the episode and the season as a whole, and I'm just exhausted by it, and not in a good way." Matt Fowler from IGN gave the episode a 7.7/10 rating, stating, "The Hank storyline and his unexpected, violent turn on Laveau was very well done. The rest of "Head" felt undercooked though... I appreciate that the show takes risks with its mesh of tones, but there also comes a point where you just can't take away anything meaningful from a scene featuring a sassy head. Even if it's Kathy Bates."

"Head" received a 2.1 18–49 ratings share and was watched by 3.94 million viewers in its original American broadcast, a slight decrease from the previous episode.



</doc>
<doc id="41067597" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067597" title="Rudolphus Lubbers">
Rudolphus Lubbers

Lubbers may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41067602" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067602" title="Institute for Business and Social Impact">
Institute for Business and Social Impact

The Institute for Business and Social Impact was founded by Laura Tyson in November 2013 at the University of California, Berkeley, Haas School of Business.

The institute currently houses The Center for Nonprofit and Public Leadership, The Center for Responsible Business, The Graduate Program in Health Management, and The Haas Global Social Venture Competition at the Haas School of Business.



</doc>
<doc id="41067609" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067609" title="Mustaid Billah">
Mustaid Billah

Mustaid Billah (born on March 30, 1992) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persiba Balikpapan in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067624" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067624" title="Lee Young-hee (physicist)">
Lee Young-hee (physicist)

Lee Young-hee (born 28 July 1955) is a South Korean physicist. He is currently professor in physics and energy science at Sungkyunkwan University as a SKKU fellow. He is also director of the Center for Integrated Nanostructure Physics in the Institute for Basic Science (IBS). He has been a Clarivate Analytics Highly Cited Researcher in the cross-field category in 2018.

Lee received a B.S. in physics, Chonbuk National University in 1982. In 1986 he received his Ph.D. in physics at Kent State University on the subject of "Classical and Quantum Computer Simulation Studies: Molecular Dynamics of the Kerr Effect in CS2 and Green's Function MonteCarlo Calculation of the Electronic Correlation Energy in Atoms" which was advised by Michael A. Lee.








</doc>
<doc id="41067632" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067632" title="Dhika Bayangkara">
Dhika Bayangkara

Dhika Bayangkara (born April 29, 1992) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persib bandung in the Liga 1.

Dhika make his debut when PS TNI against Gresik United in the fourth week 2016 Indonesia Soccer Championship. A full-time Dhika also play PS TNI draw against PSM Makassar in the fifth week.


</doc>
<doc id="41067636" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067636" title="2013–14 South Dakota Coyotes men's basketball team">
2013–14 South Dakota Coyotes men's basketball team

The 2013–14 South Dakota Coyotes men's basketball team represented the University of South Dakota during the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Coyotes, led by first year interim head coach and former assistant Joey James, played their home games at the DakotaDome and were members of The Summit League. They finished the season 12–18, 6–8 in The Summit League play to finish in fifth place. They lost in the quarterfinals of The Summit League Tournament to Denver.

Interim head coach Joey James was not retained at the end of the season. 

!colspan=9 style="background:#E34234; color:#FFFFFF;"| Regular season

!colspan=9 style="background:#E34234; color:#FFFFFF;"| 2014 The Summit League Tournament


</doc>
<doc id="41067638" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067638" title="Psychological aspects of childhood obesity">
Psychological aspects of childhood obesity

Childhood obesity is defined as a body mass index (BMI) at or above the 96th percentile for children of the same age and sex. It can cause a variety of health problems, including high blood pressure, high cholesterol, heart disease, diabetes, breathing problems, sleeping problems, and joint problems later in life. Children who are obese are at a greater risk for social and psychological problems as well, such as peer victimization, increased levels of aggression, and low self-esteem. Many environmental and social factors have been shown to correlate with childhood obesity, and researchers are attempting to use this knowledge to help prevent and treat the condition. When implemented early, certain forms of behavioral and psychological treatment can help children regain and/or maintain a healthy weight.

Childhood obesity has increased drastically in the US in the past 60 years, and studies show that in that time, there has been an increase in the amount of time spent watching television. In the 1950s two percent of households owned television sets, and 40 years later, 98% of households owned at least 1 television set. Current data reveals that, between the ages of 2 and 17 years, on average children spend more than 3 years of their lives watching television. Unhealthy food advertisements correlate with childhood obesity rates. This supports the theory that watching too much television is “one of the most easily modifiable causes of obesity among children.”
Consequentially, there has been an increase in children and adolescents’ exposure to food advertisements. The majority of advertisements targeted at children promote food with minimal nutritional value, such as candy (32% of all children’s ads), cereal (31%), and fast-food restaurants (9%). In 1997 US food manufacturers spent $7 billion on product advertising. Money spent on fast-food restaurant advertising made up about 28 percent of advertising, up from only five percent in 1980.
In one of the first studies on television's role in childhood obesity, William Dietz and Steven found evidence that each additional hour of television per day increased the prevalence of obesity by two percent. They also specified the ways in which television viewing may affect weight in children and adolescents: severe decreases in physical activity and an increase in the desire for and consumption of unhealthy foods. These findings have been mirrored in more recent studies as well: middle-school children who watched more television tended to drink more soft drinks; this may be due to heavy exposure to food advertising.
There are also studies that focus specifically on how advertisements are able to influence very young children and their eating habits. Even brief exposure to televised food commercials can influence preschool children’s food preferences; young children may not be able to distinguish advertisements from their regular programming, and they may not understand that advertisements are meant to persuade while shows are meant to entertain. Using children’s favorite characters and presenting products alongside concepts like fun, happiness, and well-being leads children to associate happiness with these foods without understanding the effects of eating only candy for breakfast, lunch, and dinner.
While there are many studies that seek to prove that television plays a large role in causing childhood obesity, no concrete evidence can be found to support this claim. There is a correlational relationship between the two but no one can prove a causal relationship. There are numerous factors that contribute to a child’s weight and eating habits; while media can have a significant impact on children and their food choices, their parents and friends may play an even more important role in determining childhood obesity.

Children who are externally motivated to eat are at a higher risk for obesity. In one study, two groups of children were told to focus on different prompts to eat: either external cues, such as the amount of food on their plate, or internal cues like hunger and satiety. The children who relied on internal cues were more likely to eat when they were hungry and stop when they were full. In contrast, the children who responded to external cues were more likely to ignore or overlook internal cues that indicated that they were full. Children who grow accustomed to relying on external hunger cues and thus eating more than their bodies need because are more likely to gain excess weight.

There is an association between the amount of time a mother works and her child’s body mass index (BMI). There is evidence that nonstandard maternal work schedules, meaning those that fall at least partially outside the “traditional” range of 9:00 am to 5:00 pm on Monday through Friday, are correlated with higher child BMIs.

Maternal depressive symptoms may be related to children’s nutrition and physical activity, which in turn help determine weight status. Mothers with such symptoms are more likely to put their infants to bed with a bottle and less likely to have rules about what their children eat. They are also less likely to eat dinner with their children, and the children usually watch more TV per day than children with non-depressed mothers. All of these behaviors have been correlated with higher child BMI. However, identifying maternal depression early can reduce the effects on children’s eating habits and weight.

Psychological stress in a family may contribute to childhood obesity. Sources of such stress include serious life events, parenting stress, lack of social support, and parental worries (e.g., the possibility of the child falling ill, being harmed, being handicapped, not developing normally, being exposed to abuse, or not surviving). In one study, children whose families reported stress in at least two of these four domains had significantly higher rates of obesity.

Obese children show more depressive symptoms, poorer self-esteem, and poorer body-esteem than their normal-weight peers; however, among obese children, increased BMI does not correlate to severity of mental health problems. Weight does not predict depression or depressive symptoms in adolescents; however depressed youths (particularly males) are at an increased risk for obesity. Obesity can cause psychosocial problems that can lead to depression. Obese children show domain-specific decreases in self-esteem, judging themselves to have lower athletic competence and worse physical appearance; this decreased confidence discourages participation in sports, thus exacerbating both obesity and social problems. However, obese children do not vary significantly in ratings of scholastic competence, and objective measures show no effect on academic performance (controlling for other factors). Mental health among obese children reflects differences in cultural pressure: European-Americans, Asian-Americans, females, and adolescents are most likely to be emotionally affected by obesity. European-American and Asian-American culture emphasize thinness as a desirable quality more than do African-American or Hispanic communities, and in general boys and younger children are under less pressure to be thin.

A child’s body esteem may be more predictive of mental health problems than a child’s actual weight status; weight-focused bullying correlates to increased depressive symptoms, lower self-esteem, and poor body esteem even in normal-weight children. That said, obese children are more likely to be mistreated and teased by their peers and are thus more susceptible to mental health issues. Children are very impressionable. If they are surrounding themselves with peers who exercise daily and choose water over a sugary beverage are much more likely to want to do the same. On the other hand, if they are surrounded by an environment filled with bullying and shaming, their motivation to be healthy will deteriorate. 

Bullying is more common toward obese children regardless of gender. Children hold many stereotypes about obese people, including that they are lazy, selfish, and mean. Verbal bullying may lead obese children to internalize such stereotypes, and victimization of all types may elicit social withdrawal or retaliatory behaviors that confirm stereotypes. Bullying increases with age for girls, but decreases for boys. It also appears that obese African-American and Hispanic girls experience less bullying than European-Americans, which reflects the patterns of mental health as well as the differences in cultural attitudes about thinness. It appears that the cultural differences insulate these children from the stereotypes that lead to victimization.

Isolation and rejection can impact self-esteem directly and also stunt social development, thus contributing to social ineptitude that can affect future relationships. Obese children list fewer friends than normal-weight peers and they have fewer reciprocated friendships. There is also evidence that their friendships are weaker than those among normal-weight children. Time spent engaged with screen media positively correlates with depression, and physical activity correlates with number of friendships; this suggests that certain obesity-promoting behaviors interfere with peer interaction: sedentary activities remove obese children from their peer group and limit opportunities to grow social networks. Still, obese children typically have at least one reciprocated friendship. Friendship buffers against both loneliness and the effects of bullying: self-disclosure to a close friend may help the victim cope with his/her experiences without rumination or internalization of problems. This improves self-esteem of physical appearance and decreases depressive symptoms.

Obese adolescents display more aggression than normal-weight peers, particularly in terms of physical and verbal bullying. Such behavior reinforces negative stereotypes of obese people and further damages peer relationships. One possible explanation for this aggression is that obese children’s lack of social support and friendly interaction stunts social development. Alternatively, obese children may seek to dominate their peers since they feel that they cannot gain approval through positive interaction. It is also possible that there is a “hierarchy of aggression,” such that obese children are merely reciprocating negative behaviors directed at them.

Given the detrimental effects and rising prevalence of childhood obesity, much research has been conducted on how to prevent and treat the condition. It appears that addressing the psychology of obesity and modifying the family environment are important factors in regaining and maintaining a healthy weight.

There is evidence that certain behavioral change techniques may help prevent or treat childhood obesity. A recent survey of the literature revealed six techniques that proved effective: providing information on behavior specific to the individual (e.g., “You should not eat so much sugar, like when you have candy after school.”), environmental restructuring, prompt practice, identification of a role model, stress management and emotional control training, and general communication skills training.16 While these techniques are useful, further research is needed to understand how they can best be incorporated into programs for at-risk or obese children. The survey also cites four management techniques that did not promote prevention or intervention: providing information on the consequences of behavior in general (e.g., “Eating too much sugar is bad for one’s health.”) did not promote effective intervention. In a similar vein, providing reward contingent on successful behavior and facilitating social comparison were not effective in preventing childhood obesity. Many interventions center around promoting exercise and physical activity. Research has found that while interventions that utilize supervised exercise reduce BMI most effectively, interventions with a component promoting physical activity were more likely to generate lasting change in physical activity regardless of whether or not there was a supervised exercise component.

Further studies have demonstrated immense influence of the home environment as a result of parental (often maternal) education and guidance, with less success in school settings. A recently published study found that “parental policies supporting child physical activity are warranted,” and that “aspects of a child’s home environment can promote physical activity and dietary intake” in a variety of ways. Active parental promotion of physical activity and an environment conducive to frequent, safe physical activity increase a preschool child’s physical activity and improve dietary intake; such early changes even make the child more likely to display these healthy behaviors at age ten. Policies directed at parental behavior and the home environment are critical in order to prevent and treat obesity. However, different socioeconomic groups and mothers with different levels of education experience different rates of success in? prevention and reduction in obesity, warranting further assessment of different strategies’ effectiveness for different groups.

Research also emphasizes the importance of self-regulation skills in toddlers (and the promotion of self-regulation skills at all ages); the researchers concluded, “Self regulation skills in toddlers were associated with body mass index development and pediatric obesity eight years later. Early self regulation difficulties also contributed to body image and eating concerns that typically accompanied overweight children.” Similarly, the study found that toddlers’ inability to delay gratification and regulate their emotions was predictive of later overweight status, and that difficulties in these areas at age 4 correlated to being overweight at age 11. Research suggests that early and continuous intervention in the behavioral patterns of children makes a large impact.


</doc>
<doc id="41067655" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067655" title="Shin Yong-mok">
Shin Yong-mok

Shin Yong-Mok (Hangul: 신용목) is an award-winning South Korean poet.

Shin Yong-Mok was born in Geochang, Gyeongsangnam-do, Korea in 1974. Shin entered college by which time he was already writing poetry. He was elected student body president and immediately attacked his university for corruption. He also undertook a fast in protest for democratization of educational institutions. Shin made his literary debut in the year 2000.

Shin was influenced by older-generation activist poets, so-called "poets of the masses" (minjung shiin), such as Kim Nam-ju and Shin Kyeong-nim, and genuinely anguished over the problem of the path literature should take in society and history.

The quintessential "new poet", Shin's poems avoid overt ideology. Shin's clearly spells out messages of love for the community in soft, easy lyricism, and this is based in his own firm belief in the value of "co-existence with one's fellow man" over "self-happiness." 
Even amid the wave of neoliberalism in which competition among writers is considered a necessary evil, Shin sees meaning in even the smallest of hopes, in order to protect the dignity and liberty of the human being. As in the lines "Every hour given me / I take my flashlight and go check the reins / to see if there is any damage" (selected passage from "Jeong of the Guard"), he places himself in the position of a "guard" responsible for "positivity". Shin's work argues that the value and importance of the spirit will never fade, even in the materialism of capitalist society.

Shin has won multiple awards, including Newcomers Literary Prize in 2000, the Beginning Literary Prize in 2008, and the 육사시문학상 젊은시인상 prize, also in 2008.

Poetry Collections



</doc>
<doc id="41067659" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067659" title="Fengky Turnando">
Fengky Turnando

Fengky Turnando (born on January 1, 1991) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for Persiba Balikpapan in the Indonesia Super League.


</doc>
<doc id="41067663" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067663" title="Mraka Sound">
Mraka Sound

Mraka Sound (, ‘Zaliv Mraka’ \'za-liv 'mra-ka\) is a roughly rectangular water body extending 5 km in southeast-northwest direction and 4.2 km in southwest-northeast direction in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica. It is bounded by Renaud Island on the south, Pickwick Island on the north and Winkle Island on the northeast.

The sound is named after the historical region of Mraka in Western Bulgaria.

Mraka Sound is centred at . British mapping in 1971.




</doc>
<doc id="41067665" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067665" title="Melody of Love (TV series)">
Melody of Love (TV series)

Melody of Love () is a 2013 South Korean daily drama television series starring Kim Da-som, Baek Sung-hyun, Hwang Sun-hee, Kim Hyung-jun and Kwak Hee-sung. It aired on KBS1 from November 4, 2013 to June 6, 2014 on Mondays to Fridays at 20:20 for 151 episodes.

This drama centers on three families whose members learn to appreciate each other, realize the true meaning of family, regret their misbehavior, and repent the hurt they've caused after hardships and trials in the world where individualism is prominent.

Gong Deul-im (Kim Da-som) is a tenacious, outgoing, and optimistic aspiring musical actress with undying passion to pursue her dreams despite going against her parents' wishes. She will have a romantic relationship with lawyer Park Hyun-woo (Baek Sung-hyun). Meanwhile, Han Tae-kyung (Kim Hyung-jun) is the leader of a drama troupe and musical director. He will be acting as a perfectionist, but a gentle and thoughtful man outside of work. He will be working closer with Deul-im and is best friends with Hyun-woo and Deul-im's older sister, Gong Soo-im (Hwang Sun-hee). He will develop feelings for Soo-im.









</doc>
<doc id="41067729" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067729" title="Zulvin Zamrun">
Zulvin Zamrun

Zulvin Malik Zamrun (born onn February 19, 1988) is an Indonesian footballer who currently plays for 
PSGC Ciamis as a midfielder in the Liga 2.

He is the twin brother of Zulham Zamrun which is a member of Indonesian national football team squad.

In January 2015, he signed with Pusamania Borneo.


</doc>
<doc id="41067732" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067732" title="Pook's Hill">
Pook's Hill

Pook's Hill is a private forest reserve, bird sanctuary, and archaeological site in Cayo District, Belize, west of Belmopan. The Mayan site contains temples, a "plazuela", midden, banquet hall, and burial sites. Facilities within the reserve include Pook's Hill Lodge, an ecotourism resort.

Pook's Hill is located within a forest reserve, in the Maya Mountains foothills. Pook’s Hill Reserve, which is listed with Belize Association of Private Protected Areas, adjoins the Tapir Mountain Nature Reserve. It is situated southwest of Belmopan and northeast of San Ignacio. From Belmopan, there is signage near Teakettle village. Other archaeological sites in the area include Caracol, Tikal, Xunantunich, and Cahal Pech.

Pook's Hill contains ancient ruins of a Mayan site. The Mayan residential complex dates to around 830-950 AD. The site has been excavated by members of the Belize Valley Archaeological Reconnaissance Project. 

The excavations revealed four temples and also a midden. The midden is located between the temples 1 and 2A. The midden has revealed antiquaries which relate to the food habits of a common man. Temple 2A has been inferred as a banquet hall or community hall. Other antiquaries located here consisted of human teeth, images made in ceramics, and also musical instruments. Also found across the temple site were main burial sites in which skeleton remains of nine people have been found. In the caves in the region, remnants of pottery were also found which are inferred as similar to those found on the hills. 

Pook's Hill is a private bird sanctuary. It is set within a neotropical, moist broadleaved forest, contains hardwood and bromeliad trees. Rare bird species are noted, toucans are common, and hummingbirds, trogons, motmots, and the spectacled owl are also seen.

The San Ignacio Resort Hotel in San Ignacio established a Green Iguana Project in 1996 in order to proliferate the population of the Green Iguanas "(Iguana iguana)". Since then, 100 iguanas have been set free in the Pook's Hill Reserve.

The area now known as Pook's Hill was purchased in 1991 by Ray and Vicki Snaddon, who built Pook's Hill Lodge. Snaddon named it after the popular children’s book “Puck of Pook's Hill”, authored by Rudyard Kipling. ‘Pook’ in the Mayan language means “hill”. The lodge has ten white-plastered cabanas with thatched roofs which are decorated with Mayan weavings. The facility's library provides information on the area's bird life.



</doc>
<doc id="41067743" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067743" title="2014 Alabama Crimson Tide football team">
2014 Alabama Crimson Tide football team

The 2014 Alabama Crimson Tide football team (variously "Alabama", "UA", "Bama" or "The Tide") represented the University of Alabama in the 2014 NCAA Division I FBS football season. It marked the Crimson Tide's 120th overall season, 81st as a member of the Southeastern Conference (SEC) and its 23rd within the SEC Western Division. The team was led by head coach Nick Saban, in his eighth year, and played its home games at Bryant–Denny Stadium in Tuscaloosa, Alabama.

The Alabama Crimson Tide were 12–2 overall and 7–1 in SEC regular season. The Crimson Tide won the SEC Western Division title for the tenth time, advancing to their ninth SEC Championship Game, where they defeated Missouri 42–13. The Crimson Tide played in the inaugural College Football Playoff as the #1 seed, netting a berth in the CFP semifinal 2015 Sugar Bowl, where they were defeated by the #4 seed Ohio State Buckeyes 42–35.

In 2013, Alabama came into the season ranked as the number one team in the nation and as two-time, defending national champions. The Crimson Tide opened the season with eleven consecutive victories that included one over Virginia Tech at a neutral site, against Texas A&M in a game that saw many team records broken, and a victory over Louisiana State University (LSU) at Bryant–Denny Stadium. In their last regular-season game, Alabama was upset by Auburn. The Crimson Tide loss resulted in them not making an appearance in the SEC Championship Game. Alabama accepted an invitation to play in the Sugar Bowl, lost to Oklahoma 45–31 and finished the season ranked seventh in the AP poll.

At the start of fall camp on August 1, coach Saban announced Jarran Reed, Brandon Ivory and Tim Williams were suspended indefinitely for violations of team rules. Reed and Ivory returned from suspension on August 4 and Williams returned on August 20. The camp featured several positional battles with incoming freshmen competing for starting spots. Of note were true freshmen Cameron Robinson who landed the starting spot at left tackle over Dominick Jackson and both Tony Brown and Marlon Humphrey who secured back-up roles at defensive back. The most anticipated positional battle of camp was for quarterback. Both Blake Sims and Jacob Coker played themselves into position to be named starter through the end of camp when Sims was selected as the starter for the opening game against West Virginia.

By mid-August, Alabama had a combined 26 players on 12 different preseason award watch lists. Landon Collins, Trey DePriest and A'Shawn Robinson for the Chuck Bednarik Award; Amari Cooper for the Fred Biletnikoff Award; Collins, DePriest and Robinson for the Bronko Nagurski Trophy; DePriest and Reggie Ragland for the Butkus Award; Collins, Cooper and T. J. Yeldon for the Walter Camp Award; Arie Kouandjio and Robinson for the Lombardi Award; O. J. Howard for the John Mackey Award; Jacob Coker, Cooper, Derrick Henry and Yeldon for the Maxwell Award; Ryan Kelly, Kouandjio and Robinson for the Outland Trophy; Kelly for the Rimington Trophy; Collins for the Jim Thorpe Award; and Henry and Yeldon for the Doak Walker Award.

Alabama head coach Nick Saban entered his eighth year as the Crimson Tide's head coach for the 2014 season. During his previous seven years with Alabama, he led the Crimson Tide to an overall record of 74 wins and 15 losses (74–15) and the 2009, 2011 and 2012 national championships. On January 10, 2014, former Oakland Raiders, Tennessee and USC head coach Lane Kiffin was hired as the replacement for Doug Nussmeier as offensive coordinator. Nussmeier resigned from Alabama on January 9 to become offensive coordinator at Michigan. Kiffin was working with Alabama in some capacity before the team's 2014 Sugar Bowl game and before taking the offensive coordinator position.

On January 11, defensive line coach Chris Rumph resigned and took a position on the Texas staff under new head coach Charlie Strong to replace former defensive line coach Bo Davis. At that time, Davis had accepted a job at USC. After Rumph left Alabama, Davis resigned as defensive line coach at USC after one week on the job to take Rumph's job at Alabama. Davis previously coached defensive line at Alabama from 2007 to 2010.

On February 12, Greg Brown resigned after only one season at Alabama to become the safeties coach at Louisville. Two days later, Kevin Steele was promoted from Alabama's director of player personnel to inside linebackers coach. Steele previously served as a defensive assistant for Saban at Alabama in 2007 and 2008.

Prior to National Signing Day on February 5, 2014, eight players enrolled for the spring semester in order to participate in spring practice and included six former high school seniors and two junior college transfers. The early enrollments from high school included top-ranked offensive tackle Cameron Robinson, wide receiver Cameron Sims, safety Laurence "Hootie" Jones, cornerback Tony Brown, quarterback David Cornwell and linebacker Shaun Dion Hamilton. The junior college transfers enrolled early included defensive end D. J. Pettway and defensive tackle Jarran Reed. All of the players will take part in Alabama's "fourth-quarter" strength and conditioning program in February before spring practice starts in March.

On National Signing Day, Alabama signed 18 additional players out of high school that completed the 2014 recruiting class. The class was highlighted by 19 players from the "ESPN 300": No. 3 Cameron Robinson; No. 6 Da'Shawn Hand; No. 8 Tony Brown; No. 12 Bo Scarbrough; No. 15 Marlon Humphrey; No. 27 Laurence Jones; No. 48 Christian Miller; No. 49 Cameron Sims; No. 52 Rashaan Evans; No. 57 David Cornwell; No. 64 Ross Pierschbacher; No. 71 Ronnie Clark; No. 102 Shaun Dion Hamilton; No. 160 Joshua Frazier; No. 168 Josh Casher; No. 190 J. C. Hassenauer; No. 199 Derek Kief; No. 215 O. J. Smith; and No. 281 Keith Holcombe. Alabama signed the No. 1 recruiting class according to "Rivals.com", "Scout.com" and "247Sports.com". Of the 26 players signed only two failed to qualify to compete in 2014: Montel McBride and Bo Scarbrough. McBride played for Iowa Western Community College in 2014 and Scarbrough is expected to enroll at Alabama in January 2015.

In addition to those signed as part of the 2014 class, on January 26 Florida State quarterback Jacob Coker announced his intention to transfer to Alabama. After he graduated in May 2014, Coker officially enrolled at Alabama on May 5. Based on NCAA transfer rules for student athletes who graduate, Coker had two years of eligibility remaining to compete with the Crimson Tide.

Notable departures from the 2013 squad included juniors, Ha Ha Clinton-Dix, Adrian Hubbard, Cyrus Kouandjio, Jeoffrey Pagan, and Vinnie Sunseri who declared their eligibility for the 2014 NFL Draft. Senior starters from the 2013 squad who exhausted their eligibility included AJ McCarron, Kevin Norwood, and Anthony Steen on offense; Deion Belue, C. J. Mosley, and Ed Stinson on defense; and Cody Mandell, McCarron, and Cade Foster on special teams. Other notable departures from the 2013 squad included several players who transferred to another school. These transfers included quarterback Luke Del Rio to Oregon State, running back Dee Hart to Colorado State, and center Chad Lindsay to Ohio State.

Alabama had seven returning players on offense, five on defense and five on special teams that started games in 2013.

The depth chart listed below shows starters and backups as announced in August 2014.
The 2014 schedule was officially released on August 21, 2013. Alabama faced all six Western Division opponents: Arkansas, Auburn, LSU, Mississippi State, Ole Miss, and Texas A&M. They also faced two Eastern Division opponents: official SEC rival Tennessee and Florida. Alabama was not scheduled to play SEC opponents Georgia, Kentucky, Missouri, South Carolina or Vanderbilt during the regular season. They played four non-conference games: West Virginia of the Big 12 Conference, Florida Atlantic and Southern Miss of Conference USA and Western Carolina of the Southern Conference. On the final weekend of the regular season, a Missouri victory over Arkansas, coupled with a Mississippi State loss set up a SEC Championship Game against the Tigers for the Crimson Tide. On December 7, the selection committee for the College Football Playoff ranked Alabama as the top seed for the inaugural playoff. For their semifinal match-up, Alabama played Ohio State of the Big Ten Conference in the Sugar Bowl.

On May 17, 2012, officials from both Alabama and West Virginia announced the Crimson Tide and the Mountaineers would meet for the first time to open the 2014 season in the Chick-fil-A College Kickoff at Atlanta. As they entered their game week preparations, Alabama head coach Nick Saban announced starting linebacker Trey DePriest would be suspended for the game due to a NCAA violation. Although Alabama entered the game as a heavy favorite over the Mountaineers, the Crimson Tide only defeated West Virginia by a score of 33–23 in what was Blake Sims first start at quarterback. After Alabama won the coin toss and deferred until the second half, West Virginia had a 14-play drive that took them as far as the Crimson Tide three-yard line. It was from the three that Josh Lambert gave the Mountaineers a 3–0 lead with his 20-yard field goal. Alabama responded on the next possession after Adam Griffith connected on a 47-yard field goal that tied the game 3–3. After the Crimson Tide defense forced a punt on the Mountaineers possession that followed, Alabama scored their first touchdown on the 95-yard drive that ensued. Behind a strong running attack, T. J. Yeldon gave the Crimson Tide a 10–3 lead with his 15-yard touchdown run early in the second quarter.

West Virginia responded on their next possession with a long touchdown drive of their own. Led by quarterback Clint Trickett, the Mountaineers went 75 yards in nine plays with Trickett throwing a 19-yard touchdown pass to Kevin White that tied the game 10–10. Late in the quarter, Alabama retook a 17–10 lead on a one-yard Yeldon touchdown run. However, on the kickoff that ensued, Mario Alford dodges several Crimson Tide tackles en route to a 100-yard touchdown run that tied the game 17–17. Alabama did respond with a quick, 50-yard drive that ended with a 41-yard Adam Griffith field goal that gave the Crimson Tide a 20–17 halftime lead.

After Alabama was stopped on a fourth-down conversion and the Mountaineers missed a 47-yard field goal on their opening possessions of the second half, the Crimson Tide took a 27–17 lead behind a 19-yard Derrick Henry touchdown run. Both teams then traded field goals on the next two possessions and made the score 30–20 in favor of the Crimson Tide as they entered the fourth quarter. Although only a pair of field goals were scored in the fourth that made the final score 33–23, the Alabama defense played its best quarter of the game and forced the Mountaineers into several three-and-out possessions late in the game. For his four field goal performance, Adam Griffith was recognized as both the SEC Special Teams Player of the Week and as a Lou Groza Award National Star of the Week.

To open their 2014 home schedule, Alabama defeated the Florida Atlantic Owls 41–0 in a game that was called midway through the fourth quarter due to lightning strikes within eight miles of Bryant–Denny Stadium. The Crimson Tide elected to receive the ball to open the game and then went on a seven-play, 74-yard drive that culminated in a seven-yard Blake Sims touchdown run. After the Alabama defense forced a punt on the Owls' first possession, Sims connected with Amari Cooper on a 52-yard touchdown pass for a 14–0 lead. The Crimson Tide extended their lead further to 21–0 on their next possession when Sims threw a 39-yard touchdown pass to Kenyan Drake. On the first defensive play that followed, Eddie Jackson forced a Kamrin Solomon fumble that was recovered by Reggie Ragland at the Owls' 42-yard line.

It was on this possession that backup quarterback Jacob Coker entered the game. He led the Crimson Tide on a 37-yard drive that resulted in a 24–0 lead after Adam Griffith connected on a 22-yard field goal early in the second quarter. The Alabama defense continued their strong performance and forced a three-and-out before the offense started their fourth touchdown drive of the game. Coker led the Crimson Tide on a 12-play, 87-yard drive that ended with a three-yard Corker touchdown pass to Jalston Fowler for a 31–0 lead. FAU responded with their longest drive of the game only to again have to punt. Alabama then had their final drive of the first half stall at the Owls' nine-yard line; that made the halftime score 31–0.

On the first Alabama possession of the third quarter, Eugene Fau recovered a Sims fumble at the FAU one-yard line and prevented another Crimson Tide touchdown. They scored their fifth touchdown on a three-yard Kenyan Drake touchdown run later in the third that extended their lead to 38–0. With many of Alabama's back-ups in the game, Adam Griffith scored the final points of the game with his 28-yard field goal. After Cyrus Jones set up a late Crimson Tide scoring opportunity with his 70-yard punt return, officials delayed the game due to lightning strikes in the vicinity of the stadium with Alabama in a fourth and goal situation. Within fifteen minutes of the delay, both schools agreed to call the game with 7:53 to play in the fourth quarter. The game marked the first in Alabama history where two quarterbacks had over 200 yards passing, and Cooper's 13 receptions also tied a Crimson Tide single-game record set by D. J. Hall in 2007. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Owls to 2–0.

In their third game of the 2014 season and second consecutive home non-conference game, Alabama defeated the Southern Miss Golden Eagles 52–12. Behind their passing game led by Nick Mullins, the Golden Eagles took a 3–0 lead behind a 33-yard Corey Acosta field goal on their opening possession. Alabama responded on the next possession with a 22-yard Blake Sims touchdown pass to Amari Cooper for a 7–3 lead. After a series of punts, the Crimson Tide extended their lead to 14–3 early in the second quarter behind a four-yard Sims touchdown run, and further to 21–3 on a one-yard Kenyan Drake touchdown run. Acosta then made the score 21–6 with his 43-yard field goal just prior to halftime.

To open the second half, Sims led the Crimson Tide 75 yards in eight-plays with Drake scoring his second touchdown for a 28–6 lead. Acosta connected on his third field goal on the drive that ensued for Southern Miss, but Alabama would go on and score on each of its final four offensive possessions for the 52–12 victory. After Sims completed a five-yard touchdown pass to Brian Vogler in the third, Jacob Coker entered the game on the following possession and led the Crimson Tide on three scoring drives in the fourth quarter. Points were scored by Drake on a 29-yard touchdown run, Adam Griffith on a 30-yard field goal and by Tyren Jones on a two-yard run. The win improved the Crimson Tide's record in the all-time series versus Southern Miss to 34–6–2 (36–5–2 without NCAA vacations and forfeits).

The Florida Gators surrendered a school-record 672 yards of total offense to the Crimson Tide in this 42–21 Alabama victory. Florida won the pregame toss and elected to receive. After they held Florida to a three-and-out, Alabama scored on its first play from scrimmage on an 87-yard touchdown pass from Blake Sims to Kenyan Drake. However, Drake lost a fumble on Alabama's next possession, and gave the Gators possession at the Alabama 31-yard line. A 28-yard touchdown pass from Jeff Driskel to Valdez Showers tied the game at 7–7. The Crimson Tide's next possession also ended in a lost fumble which was returned by Florida for a touchdown, and gave the Gators a 14–7 lead. On the possession that ensued, Alabama drove 52-yards to set up an Adam Griffith field goal, but Griffith missed the 45-yarder in his first missed field goal of the season. The Crimson Tide forced another Florida three-and-out and punt, and the Alabama offense immediately tied the game 14–14 on a 79-yard touchdown pass to Amari Cooper. On Florida's next possession, Alabama recorded its first interception of the season when Jabriel Washington picked-off a Driskel pass at the Alabama 13-yard line. The ensuing Tide possession ended in yet another fumble, this time by Sims, but the Tide defense held as Florida and Alabama exchanged punts. Alabama forced a fumble from Florida running back Matt Jones, to set up a 56-yard drive that ended in a touchdown pass from Sims to Jalston Fowler to regain the lead, and Alabama led by a touchdown at halftime, 21–14.

Continuing the theme of the game, Alabama turned the ball over again on the opening possession of the second half when a Blake Sims pass was batted into the air by a Florida defender and intercepted by Antonio Morrison. Two plays later, Driskel ran 14-yards for a touchdown and tied the game 21–21. Alabama used more than seven minutes and converted five third downs on its next possession and regained the lead on a three-yard Derrick Henry touchdown run. Florida punted again, and on Alabama's next possession Sims injured his shoulder on a 24-yard run. Backup Jacob Coker entered the game, but Alabama relied mostly on runs from Henry and T. J. Yeldon to move the ball to the Florida four-yard line. Coker threw a four-yard touchdown pass to Cooper and extended Alabama's lead to 35–21. Florida's next possession ended with Driskel's second interception of the day, this time to Landon Collins. After the interception, Sims reentered the game and led a 60-yard that ended in a touchdown pass to Cooper, that made the score 42–21.

Blake Sims's 445 passing yards were the second highest single-game passing total in Alabama history behind Scott Hunter's 1969 record, and his 484 yards of total offense (including 39 total yards rushing) broke Hunter's single-game total offense record. Additionally, Cooper became Alabama's all-time leader in touchdown receptions after he eclipsed the previous record of 18 set by Dennis Homan. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Gators to 22–14 (23–14 without the NCAA vacation of the 2005 victory).

In what was their first true road game of the season, Alabama was upset by the Ole Miss Rebels 23–17 at Oxford. After the Rebels elected to start the game on offense, Mark Dodson returned the opening kickoff 54-yards to the Alabama 39-yard line. After a first down run by Bo Wallace, Ole Miss didn't gain a single yard and settled for a Gary Wunderlich 46-yard field goal and gave Ole Miss an early 3–0 lead. 
Alabama responded by driving deep into Ole Miss territory, but Adam Griffith missed a 46-yard field goal. Ole Miss moved the ball easily before the drive stalled at the Alabama- 15, but Andrew Fletcher missed a chip shot 33-yard field goal. From there until 6:59 remaining in the second quarter both teams traded punts. Finally, Alabama managed to march 68 yards and Blake Sims gave Alabama a 7–3 lead with his touchdown run from one-yard out on fourth down. The Crimson Tide then extended their lead to 14–3 at halftime after Cyrus Jones forced a fumble by I'Tavius Mathers and returned it 17-yards for a touchdown.

Alabama opened the second half with a 14 play drive only to have Adam Griffith miss on a 51-yard field goal attempt. Ole Miss responded on the possession that ensued with Wallace connecting on a 50-yard pass to tight-end Evan Engram and on a 14-yard touchdown pass to Laquon Treadwell two plays later, that made the score 14–10. Alabama then drove to the Ole Miss 15, but two penalties moved them to the 29, but Griffith did connect on a 44-yard field goal attempt and extended the Alabama lead to 17–10 as they entered the fourth quarter. In the fourth, Alabama punted from their own 5 which was returned 9 yards to the Rebels' 44. After a 6-yard run by Jaylen Walton, Wallace connected with Engram for a 16-yard gain to the Alabama 34. Finally, the Rebels tied the game on the next play when Wallace connected with Vince Sanders on a 34-yard touchdown reception. The extra point tied the game at 17-17. On the kickoff that ensued, Channing Ward forced a Christion Jones fumble that was recovered by Kailo Moore at the Alabama 31-yard line. Five plays later the Rebels took a 23–17 lead after Wallace threw a 10-yard touchdown pass to Jaylen Walton, but Fletcher missed the extra point. Ole Miss then secured the win late in the quarter after Senquez Golson intercepted a Sims pass in the endzone to effectively end the game. The loss brought Alabama's all-time record against the Rebels to 48–10–2 (51–9–2 without NCAA vacations and forfeits).

In the 2014 edition of their game against Arkansas, Alabama traveled to Fayetteville and defeated the Razorbacks 14–13 with a missed PAT providing for the winning margin. Each team committed a turnover to start the game. After the Alabama defense forced a three-and-out to open the game, Christion Jones fumbled the punt that followed that Arkansas recovered at the 31-yard line. On the Razorbacks' possession that ensued, Trey DePriest forced a Kody Walker fumble out of the endzone for a touchback. Neither team had another scoring opportunity in the quarter and the score was tied 0–0 at the end of the first. On their first possession of the second quarter, Adam Griffith missed a 30-yard field goal attempt. However, on the next play, A'Shawn Robinson forced an Alex Collins fumble that was recovered by Ryan Anderson at the Razorbacks' 23-yard line. Three plays later, Blake Sims threw a 22-yard touchdown pass to T. J. Yeldon for a 7–0 Crimson Tide lead. Arkansas responded on the next possession with an 81-yard drive that was capped with a three-yard Jonathan Williams touchdown run. Down by a single point, the John Henson PAT was blocked by Jonathan Allen and Alabama held a 7–6 lead into halftime.

Alabama retained their lead until midway through the third quarter, when Brandon Allen connected with AJ Derby on a 54-yard touchdown pass to give Arkansas a 13–7 lead. The Crimson Tide retook a 14–13 lead early in the fourth after Sims connected with DeAndrew White on a six-yard touchdown pass. Both defensed then controlled the remainder of the game with Landon Collins sealing the Crimson Tide victory late in the quarter after he intercepted an Allen pass. For his performance, JK Scott was named SEC Special Teams Player of the Week. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Razorbacks to 15–8 (18–7 without NCAA vacations and forfeits).

In the second home conference game of the 2014 season, Alabama shellacked the Texas A&M Aggies 59–0 at Tuscaloosa behind a 35-point second quarter. The Crimson Tide scored on every possession of the first half en route to a 45–0 halftime lead. After Adam Griffith scored the first points of the game with his 21-yard field goal, T. J. Yeldon scored the first Alabama touchdown on a nine-yard run for a 10–0 lead at the end of the first quarter. Yeldon then opened the second quarter with a one-yard touchdown run for the first of 35 second-quarter points. Blake Sims and Derrick Henry then extended the Crimson Tide lead to 31–0 behind respective runs of 43 and eight-yards on consecutive possessions.

The next Alabama touchdown was set up after a 47-yard Christion Jones punt return gave the Crimson Tide possession at the A&M 24-yard line. On the next play, Sims threw a 24-yard touchdown pass to Amari Cooper, his first of three touchdown passes in the game. Sims then made the halftime score 45–0 after he connected with Henry on a 41-yard touchdown pass in the final minute of the half. The Crimson Tide then scored on their eighth consecutive possession to start the third quarter on a 45-yard Sims touchdown pass to Cooper. Alabama then scored their final points late in the game when Jacob Coker threw a 14-yard touchdown pass to Ty Flournoy-Smith for the 59–0 victory. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Aggies to 5–2.

In their annual rivalry game, Amari Cooper set the single-game receiving yardage record as Alabama defeated Tennessee 34–20 for their eighth consecutive win over the Volunteers. The Crimson Tide opened the game with a pair of long Cooper touchdown receptions as they took a 13–0 lead. On Alabama's first offensive play, Blake Sims connected with him on an 80-yard scoring pass and again on their second drive from 41-yards out. They then extended their lead to 20–0 on their third offensive possession on a one-yard T. J. Yeldon touchdown run. Early in the second quarter, Reggie Ragland forced a Joshua Dobbs fumble that was recovered by Eddie Jackson and returned to the Vols' 19-yard line. Three plays after a Jarran Reed personal foul penalty pushed the ball back to the 34, Sims scored on a 28-yard touchdown run for a 27–0 lead.

Tennessee responded on their next two offensive possessions to close the half and cut the Alabama lead to 27–10 at halftime. First, Dobbs led Tennessee on an 84-yard scoring drive capped with his nine-yard touchdown pass to Josh Malone. He then led them on a 59-yard drive and Aaron Medley connected on a 27-yard field goal as time expired. After their defense forced an Alabama punt to open the third quarter, Tennessee scored on their third consecutive possession on a nine-yard Dobbs touchdown pass to Von Pearson that made the score 27–17. The Crimson Tide responded on the possession hat ensued with a 28-yard Derrick Henry touchdown run that extended their lead to 34–17.

In the final quarter, Cyrus Jones intercepted a Dobbs pass and returned it to the Alabama 30-yard line. However, on the play that ensued, Sims fumbled and the Vols regained possession at the Crimson Tide 23. Six plays later, Medley connected on a 24-yard field goal that made the score 34–20. Alabama responded with a long drive, but did not score as Cameron Sutton forced a Jalston Fowler fumble that was recovered by the Vols' Jalen Reeves-Maybin at their one-yard line. This resulted in the final score of 34–17. The 224 yards receiving in the game established a new Crimson Tide record and for his performance, Cooper was recognized as the SEC Co-Offensive Player of the Week alongside Mississippi State's Josh Robinson. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Vols to 51–38–7 (52–37–8 without NCAA vacations and forfeits).

In their annual rivalry game, Alabama defeated the LSU Tigers in overtime at Baton Rouge by a final score of 20–13. After each defense forced punts on the opening five possessions, LSU took advantage of a very short field, marching 41 yards, taking a 7–0 lead behind a 14-yard Anthony Jennings touchdown pass to Malachi Dupre. Late in the first quarter, after both teams punted, Alabama drove all the way to the 10-yard line where the drive stalled and Griffith missed a 27-yard field goal. After LSU punted on their next drive, the Crimson Tide tied the game 7–7 when Blake Sims threw a 23-yard touchdown pass to Amari Cooper in the second quarter. With just under a minute left in the half, Eddie Jackson intercepted a Jennings pass and returned it 18 yards back to the Tigers' 29-yard line. Although he missed one earlier from 27-yards out, Adam Griffith then gave the Crimson Tide a 10–7 halftime lead with his 39-yard field goal.

LSU took the second-half kickoff and reached the 18-yard line where Colby Delahoussaye tied the game 10–10 with his 35-yard field goal. The next seven possessions ended in punts which lasted until a minute remaining in the fourth quarter. With just over one minute remaining in the game, Lamar Louis forced a T. J. Yeldon fumble that was recovered by Kendell Beckwith at the Alabama six-yard line. After a very critical unsportsmanlike conduct penalty and two short runs, Delahoussaye gave the Tigers a 13–10 lead with just under a minute remaining in regulation with his 39-yard field goal. Alabama got a break when the kickoff went out-of-bounds, giving them the ball at their own- 35. Sims then proceeded to drive the Crimson Tide 55 yards in nine plays, converting two third downs with his legs, where Griffith tied the game 13–13 with his 27-yard field goal and sent the game into overtime.

Alabama took a 20–13 lead in the first overtime period when Sims connected with DeAndrew White on a six-yard touchdown reception. The Tigers were unable to respond on their overtime possession as four straight incompletions gave the Crimson Tide the 20–13 win. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Tigers to 49–25–5.

In their annual rivalry game, Alabama defeated the No. 1 ranked Mississippi State Bulldogs 25–20 at Tuscaloosa. After the teams traded punts on the first three possessions of the game, Trey DePriest gave the Crimson Tide a 2–0 lead when he tackled Josh Robinson in the endzone for a safety. On the possession that followed the free kick, Adam Griffith extended Alabama's lead to 5–0 with his 36-yard field goal. The Crimson Tide then scored their first touchdown midway through the second quarter when Blake Sims hit Amari Cooper for a four-yard touchdown pass and extended their lead to 12–0. On their next offensive series, Sims threw a 50-yard completion and Derrick Henry scored from one-yard out that extended the Crimson Tide lead to 19–0. The Bulldogs responded with a 14-play, 70 yard drive that was capped with a 23-yard Evan Sobiesk field goal that made the halftime score 19–3.

State opened the third quarter with another long drive, but again were only held to a Sobiesk field goal. Later in the quarter, with the Bulldogs in scoring position, Cyrus Jones intercepted a Dak Prescott pass for a touchback and ended the scoring threat. Early in the fourth quarter, Prescott threw a four-yard touchdown pass to Fred Ross that brought the score to 19–13. Alabama responded on their possession that followed with a 15-play, 76 yard drive that was capped with a seven-yard T. J. Yeldon touchdown run for a 25–13 Crimson Tide lead. The Bulldogs did score once more late in the final minute on a four-yard Jameon Lewis touchdown reception from Prescott, but were unable to recover the onside kick and Alabama won 25–20. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Bulldogs to 77–18–3 (79–17–3 without NCAA vacations and forfeits).

On homecoming in Tuscaloosa, Alabama defeated the Western Carolina Catamounts of the Southern Conference 48–14.

The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Catamounts to 3–0 (4–0 without a NCAA vacation).

In the 2014 edition of the Iron Bowl, Alabama defeated the Auburn Tigers 55–44 at Tuscaloosa in what was the highest scoring game between the rivals. On the opening kickoff, the Crimson Tide failed to recover an onside kick and gave Auburn good field position to start the game. On the next play, the Tigers turned the ball over on a failed lateral pass from Nick Marshall to Roc Thomas. Five plays later, the Crimson Tide took a 7–0 lead behind an eight-yard T. J. Yeldon touchdown run. Alabama scored their second touchdown on a 17-yard Amari Cooper reception from Blake Sims after Daniel Carlson converted a 20-yard field goal that made the score 14–3. Auburn then a 16–14 behind a pair of 24-yard Carlson field goals and a 34-yard Nick Marshall touchdown pass to Sammie Coates. The Crimson Tide then briefly took a 21–16 behind a one-yard Yeldon touchdown run before Auburn scored ten points en route to a 26–21 halftime lead. First Marshall threw a 68-yard touchdown pass to Coates, and after Sims threw a late interception Carlson connected on a 20-yard field goal as time expired in the second quarter.

On their second play of the third quarter, Sims threw his third interception of the game, and on the Auburn drive that ensued they took a 33–21 behind a five-yard Marshall touchdown pass to Quan Bray. The Crimson Tide responded on their next possession with a 39-yard Sims touchdown pass to Cooper and the Tigers followed with a 33-yard Carlson field goal for a 36–27 Tigers lead. After this, the Crimson Tide scored touchdowns on their next four possessions and took a 55–36 lead into the final minutes of the game. After Cooper scored on a 75-yard touchdown reception, Nick Perry intercepted a Marshall pass for the Alabama defense. Five plays later Sims scored on a five-yard touchdown run and completed the two-point conversion pass to DeAndrew White.

On the Auburn possession that followed, Marshall was unable to make a third-down conversion and the ball was punted back to Alabama. The Crimson Tide then extended their lead further when Sims connected with DeAndrew White on a six-yard touchdown pass. The Crimson Tide defense then forced a change of possession on the next Tigers possession. On the drive that ensued, Derrick Henry had a 49-yard run and followed it two plays later with a 25-yard touchdown run for a 55–36 Crimson Tide lead. A five-yard Corey Grant touchdown run for Auburn in the final minute made the final score 55–44 in favor of Alabama. With his 13 receptions, 224 yards receiving and three touchdown receptions, Cooper tied the Alabama single-game record for all three categories. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Tigers to 43–35–1.
In the 2014 edition of the SEC Championship Game, Alabama defeated the Eastern Division champions Missouri Tigers 42–13 and captured their 24th SEC football championship. The victory improved Alabama's all-time record against the Tigers to 3–2.

The day after their victory in the SEC Championship Game, Alabama was selected as the No. 1 seed for the inaugural College Football Playoff and played Ohio State in the Sugar Bowl on Thursday, January 1, 2015, for their semi-final match-up. Alabama defeated Ohio State in their previous meeting 24–17 in the 1995 Florida Citrus Bowl and led the all-time series 3–0 before this game. Ohio State was ranked No. 5 in the AP Poll and No. 4 in the College Football Playoff. In the 2015 Sugar Bowl (CFP Semifinal Game), Alabama was defeated by the Ohio State Buckeyes by a score of 42–35.

Entering the 2014 football season, the Crimson Tide were ranked No. 2 in both the AP and Coaches' Preseason Polls.

After the SEC Championship Game, multiple Alabama players were recognized for their on-field performances with a variety of awards and recognitions. At the team awards banquet on December 7, Landon Collins, Amari Cooper, Jalston Fowler and Blake Sims were each named the permanent captains of the 2014 squad. At that time Cooper was also named the 2014 most valuable player with Collins and Trey DePriest named defensive players of the year and Cooper and Sims named offensive players of the year.

The SEC recognized several players for their individual performances with various awards. Amari Cooper was named SEC Offensive Player of the Year by the Associated Press. On December 8, Cooper, Landon Collins, Arie Kouandjio, Jonathan Allen, Reggie Ragland and JK Scott were named to the AP All-SEC First Team. Blake Sims, Austin Shepherd and Cyrus Jones were named to the AP All-SEC Second Team; Trey DePriest, Ryan Kelly, Jarran Reed and A'Shawn Robinson were named to the AP All-SEC Honorable Mention Team. Kouandjio, Cooper, DePriest, Collins and Scott were named to the Coaches' All-SEC First Team. Sims and T. J. Yeldon were named to the Coaches' All-SEC Second Team.

After the season, a number of Alabama players both won and were named as national award winners and finalists. Finalists for major awards from the Crimson Tide included: Amari Cooper won the Fred Biletnikoff Award, finished third in the voting for the Heisman Trophy and was a finalist for the Walter Camp Award; JK Scott was a finalist for the Ray Guy Award; and Landon Collins was a finalist for the Jim Thorpe Award and the Bronko Nagurski Trophy.

For their individual performances during the regular season, several players were named to various national All-American Teams. Amari Cooper and Landon Collins were named to the Walter Camp All-America First Team (WC). Cooper and Collins were named to the Associated Press All-American First Team; Arie Kouandjio and JK Scott were named to the Associated Press All-American Second Team. Cooper, Collins and Scott were named to the "Sporting News" ("TSN") All-America Team. Cooper and Collins were named to the Football Writers Association of America (FWAA) All-America Team. Cooper, Collins, Trey DePriest and Kouandjio were named to the American Football Coaches Association (AFCA) All-America Team.

The NCAA recognizes five All-America lists in the determination of both consensus and unanimous All-America selections: the AP, AFCA, the FWAA, "TSN" and the WC. In order for an honoree to earn a consensus selection, he must be selected as first team in three of the five lists recognized by the NCAA, and unanimous selections must be selected as first team in all five lists. As such, for the 2014 season both Cooper and Collins were unanimous selections.




</doc>
<doc id="41067756" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067756" title="I Lie (song)">
I Lie (song)

"I Lie" is a song written by Tom Damphier, and recorded by American Country Music artist Loretta Lynn. It was released in 1982 as the first single and title track from the album "I Lie". The song reached number 9 on the "Billboard" Hot Country Singles & Tracks chart.


</doc>
<doc id="41067768" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067768" title="Lake Pansy (Winter Haven, Florida)">
Lake Pansy (Winter Haven, Florida)

Lake Pansy, an almost round lake, has a surface area of . This lake is on the north edge of Winter Haven, Florida. The city limits just reach water's edge on the east and southeast and the south city limits of Lake Alfred, Florida, are just across US Highway 92, which is northeast of Lake Pansy. The lake's north and west shores are bordered by woods. The east and northwest shores are bordered by residences and the southeast shore borders a citrus grove. Lake Pansy and the Winter Haven Municipal Airport are separated on the west side of the lake by 21st Street Northwest.

Lake Pansy has public access via a public boat ramp on its southeast shore. There are no public swimming areas at this lake. The Hook and Bullet website says this lake contains largemouth bass and perch.


</doc>
<doc id="41067775" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067775" title="Panthera blytheae">
Panthera blytheae

Panthera blytheae is an extinct species of the genus "Panthera" that is thought to have existed during the late Messinian to early Zanclean ages approximately 5.95–4.1 million years ago. It is currently the oldest known "Panthera"species. The first fossils were excavated in 2010 in the Zanda Basin located in the Ngari Prefecture on the Tibetan Plateau.

Currently, only a fossil of a "Panthera blytheae" cranium has been found. However, current evidence shows that the species has a number of features common in other "Panthera" species, including a "frontoparietal suture located at the postorbital constriction", and an "absence of an anterior bulge overhanging the infraorbital canal". Its size is thought to be on par with that of the clouded leopard. It is about 10% smaller than the snow leopard. However, this is purely based on the relative sizes of the cranium, so this may be slightly inaccurate.

The closest extant relative of "Panthera blytheae" is the snow leopard. The evidence for this is that it is more similar in cranial structure to the snow leopard than to other pantherines, as well as two species having similar ranges spanning the Tibetan Plateau. Based on the age of the fossil, "P. blytheae" is believed to have been very similar in diet to the snow leopard, as many species that constitute a large part of the snow leopard's diet existed before the extinction of "P. blytheae".

"P. blytheae" is not believed to be as closely related to the other extant species of the genus "Panthera", and is therefore not believed to be the common ancestor of all pantherines. This implies that the divergence of "Panthera" from the rest of Felidae was much earlier, with current estimates being approximately 16.4 million years ago. Analysis of the location of "P. blytheae" in relation to other "Panthera" species indicates that "Panthera" arose in Central/Northern Asia or the Holarctic region of Asia, with other pantherines migrating to Europe, Africa and the Americas.


</doc>
<doc id="41067816" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067816" title="Winkle Island (Antarctica)">
Winkle Island (Antarctica)

Winkle Island is the island lying between Tula Point and Pickwick Island, Pitt Islands, in the Biscoe Islands. It is separated from Renaud Island to the southwest by Mraka Sound.

The island was shown on an Argentine government chart of 1957. It was named by the UK-APC in 1959 after Nathaniel Winkle, a member of the Pickwick Club in Charles Dickens' Pickwick Papers.

Winkle Island is located at , 600 m southeast of Pickwick Island, 2.2 km west-southwest of Arrowsmith Island, and 500 m north of the small peninsula ending in Tula Point, Renaud Island. British mapping in 1971.




</doc>
<doc id="41067820" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067820" title="2013–14 Western Illinois Leathernecks men's basketball team">
2013–14 Western Illinois Leathernecks men's basketball team

The 2013–14 Western Illinois Leathernecks men's basketball team represented Western Illinois University during the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Leathernecks, led by sixth year head coach Jim Molinari, played their home games at Western Hall and were members of The Summit League. They finished the season 10–20, 4–10 in The Summit League play to finish in seventh place. They lost in the quarterfinals of The Summit League Tournament to South Dakota State.

At the end of the season, head coach Jim Molinari resigned to take an assistants job at Nebraska. His record was 79–104 in six seasons.

!colspan=9 style="background:#663399; color:#FFD700;"| Exhibition
!colspan=9 style="background:#663399; color:#FFD700;"| Regular season

!colspan=9 style="background:#663399; color:#FFD700;"| The Summit League Tournament


</doc>
<doc id="41067831" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067831" title="Irvin Museng">
Irvin Museng

Irvin Museng (born 13 June 1991 is an Indonesian footballer who previously plays for Persiba Balikpapan in the Indonesia Super League. He is the top scorer in 2005 Danone Nations Cup tournament in French.


His grandfather is Thauw Cin Sek, a famous retired soccer player.



</doc>
<doc id="41067840" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067840" title="Ely Hospital">
Ely Hospital

Ely Hospital () was a large psychiatric hospital near Cardiff, Wales.

The institution was established as a Poor Law Industrial School for Orphaned Children in 1862. The school moved to an adjacent site in 1903, and its original building was then used as a workhouse under the Board of Guardians for accommodating mentally ill, mentally defective and chronic aged and infirm patients. In 1930 control of the institution passed to the Public Assistance Committee of Cardiff City Council. From the establishment of the National Health Service in 1948 it was designated a Mental Deficiency Institution and Mental Hospital and administered by the Whitchurch and Ely Hospital Management Committee.

The hospital was the subject of an inquiry set up by Brian Abel-Smith into abuse of patients in 1969 after allegations about pilfering and ill-treatment were published in the "News of the World" on 20 August 1967. This was the second of many Official Inquiry Reports into National Health Service Mental Hospitals. The report, written by Geoffrey Howe is still referred to within the NHS as containing important lessons. It went beyond the events at Ely itself, to look at the whole system and the way in which people with "mental handicap" - as it was known at the time - were treated within the NHS. 

Studies of such enquiries find a similar pattern of events and responses to them. Typically the institutions are isolated and inward looking. Staff are afraid to complain about poor practices and if they do complain they are often not believed. The patients involved are generally people who are not easily able to complain. The reports rarely give voice to the patients. 

The Ely Hospital report is regarded as significant in the development of services for these patients. It led to the 1971 white paper Better Services for the Mentally Handicapped and the first inspections of such services. After the introduction of Care in the Community in the early 1980s the hospital went into a period of decline and it finally closed in 1996.




</doc>
<doc id="41067851" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067851" title="Balthazar (band)">
Balthazar (band)

Balthazar is a Belgian indie pop and rock group. The band consists of Maarten Devoldere, Jinte Deprez, Simon Casier, Michiel Balcaen and Tijs Delbeke. The band members come from the areas of Kortrijk and Ghent.

The group started in the second half of the year 2004. In the spring of 2005, Devoldere, Vanneste and Deprez (aged 18 at the time) won the national "Kunstbende" competition for young people with the song "Lost and Found". On 3 December that year they also won "Westtalent", the rock contest of the province of West Flanders, Belgium.

In 2006, Balthazar won Humo's Rock Rally Audience award, the so-called "KBC Publieksprijs". In August, their first self-titled debut EP was released, "Balthazar". In early 2007, after sixty performances, Joachim Quartier bassist and drummer Koen Verfaillie were replaced by Simon Casier and Christophe Claeys, and Balthazar started with a brand new set.

In July 2007, Balthazar performed at the Dour Festival, which followed the release of their first single "This is a flirt". The single was picked up by Radio 1 and Studio Brussel and lingered through the summer in De Afrekening hitlist, with second place as the top listing.

In February 2008 Balthazar released their second single: Bathroom lovin ': situations. This time the song ended up in the lists of Humo, hotlist and De Afrekening. They played that summer at Folk Dranouter and Marktrock, among others. The band then started performing abroad, in Germany, Switzerland, Netherlands and France. In the summer of 2009, Balthazar went to South Africa for a club tour and then work on their first album, called "Applause". Upon return in the end of December 2009, the first single Fifteen Floors was released.

On 22 March 2010, their debut album Applause came out in Belgium and the Netherlands. The album was produced by the then 22-year-old Maarten Devoldere and Jinte Deprez and was mixed in Norway by Ynge Leidulv Saetre. Applause was widely welcomed by both the press and the public, thus ending up in the top of many lists such as the best Belgian final album of 2010 (among others Focus Knack, De Morgen, OOR magazine) and on 7 January 2011, Balthazar received a Music Industry Award for "Best Album 2010" on MIA's 2010 list. The album Applause had four singles: "Fifteen floors", "Hunger at the door", "I'll stay here" and "The Boatman".

In April 2010, the band performed at London Calling in Amsterdam Paradiso, after several bands were canceled in connection with the cloud of volcanic ash over Europe, this was a big step forward in the Netherlands. They again performed at several festivals during the summer of 2010, including Rock Werchter, Pukkelpop, Dour Festival and Lowlands. In the autumn various club performances in Belgium and the Netherlands were sold out.

In the spring of 2011, Balthazar promoted their first album in Belgium and the Netherlands with concerts the Ancienne Belgique and Paradiso. Balthazars EuroSonic 2011 did not go unnoticed and switched their European story into high gear. The band was playing more across Europe, including for The Joy Formidable and dEUS. Balthazar went overseas and played for the first time in New York. A European contract with Pias Recordings, they made their debut on 10 October 2011 which was released in France, Germany, Switzerland, Austria and Scandinavia.

The second album, "Rats", was released on 15 October 2012 in Europe, excluding the UK. This was again produced by Jinte Deprez and Maarten Devoldere. The album was mixed by Noah Georgeson (Devendra Banhart, The Strokes) in Los Angeles. At the Music Industry Award in 2012, Balthazar again won the award for best album for their album Rats. Recognition for the album went beyond Belgium and the Netherlands, in France the prestigious newspaper Libération claimed the album was the best album released in 2012.

On 26 January 2015 Balthazar released the single "Then What", which preceded the album "Thin Walls" that released two months later. Then What was generally well received, with among others a first place in Studio Brussel's Afrekening for four weeks in a row. "Thin Walls" was released on 30 March 2015 and is their first album where a producer is involved. This time Ben Hillier, known from his work with Blur and Depeche Mode. The album was one of the 19 records nominated for the IMPALA Album of the Year Award. The Thin Walls tour stretched over the whole of Europe, with Balthazar playing at many big concert halls and festivals in Belgium, France, The Netherlands, United Kingdom, Italy, Switzerland, Turkey and Ukraine.

Balthazar's song "The Man Who Owns the Place" from their 2012 album "Rats" plays during the opening credits of Season 1 of the Belgian TV series "The Break" ("La Trêve") and "True Love" from their 2015 album "Thin Walls" plays during the opening credits of Season 2. 

The band's fourth album, "Fever", was released on 25 January 2019. It was preceded by the release of the title track on 31 October 2018.

Current members
Past members

After years of playing as Balthazar some of the band members have started side projects:



</doc>
<doc id="41067861" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067861" title="Sinking Creek Baptist Church">
Sinking Creek Baptist Church

Sinking Creek Baptist Church is a Southern Baptist church located in Johnson City, Tennessee. It is considered the oldest church in Tennessee.

Founded in 1772 by Matthew Talbot, the church was originally named Watauga River Church after a local tributary. Talbot owned a large farm in the immediate area of Sycamore Shoals where the original Fort Caswell (originally named after North Carolina Governor Richard Caswell and later named Fort Watauga) was constructed on his property. Talbot also owned and operated a gristmill on located approximately one half mile from the fort on Gap Creek.

Threatened by local native Americans, the church disbanded in 1776 and reformed the following year. During the late September 1780 mustering of Overmountain Men, Talbot provide beeves and corn meal for the Overmountain Men (including three of his own family members) assembling prior to their march over the Appalachian Mountains to the October 7, 1780 Battle of Kings Mountain that occurred at present day location of Kings Mountain National Military Park near Blacksburg, South Carolina and along the North Carolina/South Carolina border.

In 1783 the original building was built with pews made of flat logs. A vehicle crashed into the church in 1965 and it was rebuilt.


</doc>
<doc id="41067869" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067869" title="Roman Shaykhutdinov">
Roman Shaykhutdinov

Roman Shaykhutdinov () (born 28 August 1974 in Kazan) is a Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Tatarstan - Minister responsible for "promoting development of Innopolis project, as a , as a & ".

Born on August 28, 1974.

Graduated from the Kazan State University named after V.I.Ulyanov-Lenin major in “Jurisprudence” (1996), finished postgraduate study of the Legal faculty of the Kazan State University named after V.I.Ulyanov-Lenin major in “Jurisprudence” (2000), advanced training at the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration on the supplementary professional program "Management skill: development of regional teams" (2016). In 2017 have been trained in the joint program of Moscow School of Management SKOLKOVO and Kazan (Volga) Federal University "Model of management of strategic projects of the Republic of Tatarstan". In 2018 he passed professional retraining in the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration under the program "Executive Master in Public Management". Speaks English.

Married, with three children.

1995-1997 – Specialist of I class of the Legal department of the RT Ministry of external economic relations

1997 – 1998 – Chief specialist of the Legal department of the RT Ministry of finance

1998 – 2000 – Chief of the Legal department of OOO “Teleset”

2000 – 2002 – Director general of OOO “Networks of telecommunication companies” (Moscow)

2002 - 2011 - Director general of OOO "Teleset"

2006 — 2011 — Chief operations officer of Teleset Networks

2006 — 2011 - Director general of OAO “TNKPO”

From July 2011 till May 2012 – Director of branch of OAO Rostelecom in the Republic of Tatarstan

From May 2012 - Acting Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Tatarstan - Acting Minister of informatization and communications of the Republic of Tatarstan

While in the capacity of Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Tatarstan - Minister of Information and Communication of the Republic of Tatarstan, Roman Shaykhutdinov has made a substantial contribution to the development of the information society and promotion of the Republic of Tatarstan as a leader in IT development. 
The following projects have been implemented and are developing in the Republic of Tatarstan under the leadership of Roman Shaykhutdinov.

In providing e-services and interagency electronic interaction:
The number of services converted into electronic form grows by the year in Tatarstan. It went up from 86 in 2012 to 246 in 2017. The number of e-service delivery episodes went up from 7.000.000 in 2012 to over 100.000.000 in 2017. Nowadays, over 80% of Tatarstan residents have access to services in electronic form thereby saving more than 380.000 hours through electronic appointments and 38.000 hours through filing applications online. In 2017, the Republic of Tatarstan won first place in the prestigious international contest of the UN International Telecommunication Union by presenting a project on delivery of state and municipal services in electronic form to the jury.

Starting from 2012, Tatarstan has had a regional system of interdepartmental electronic interaction which has successfully operated in which all the bodies of state power and local government share the required information more than 1 million times per quarter. In 2012, a system called People's Control (Narodny kontrol) for considering acute issues was deployed and has functioned successfully so far. Ever since the system has operated, it has positively reviewed over 135.000 notices filed by citizens. Ever since the Public Inspector (Narodny Inspektor) system was launched in 2014, over 124.000 messages have been reviewed regarding violations of traffic rules.

In geoinformatics and space technologies:
In 2013, Tatarstan was the first in Russia to pass the state acceptance tests of the Single-Number 112-call Interagency System. The system operates by combining the efforts of medical, fire, police and rescue teams in emergency situations. In the same year, the Regional Navigation and Information System of the Republic of Tatarstan was created. Over 11.000 vehicles are now connected to this system.
In 2014, the System-112 was integrated with the federal state system of emergency response in case of accidents ERA-GLONASS. In case of traffic accidents, data from vehicles equipped with ERA-GLONASS sensors is automatically transmitted to the System-112 deployed in the Republic of Tatarstan. In 2017, the system was equipped with an automatic system locating a person calling the 112 number. This greatly helps locating a victim outside a populated place, and allows rescuers to come to his aid in less time.

In E-health: 
Starting from 2013, the Unified State Information System “Electronic Healthcare of the Republic of Tatarstan” has successfully operated. Within the system, every clinic in the Republic of Tatarstan had an electronic queue management terminal installed (a total of 325 terminals). One can also arrange a visit to a doctor through the Portal of Public and Municipal Services of the Republic of Tatarstan and through infomats “Electronic Tatarstan” and the mobile application “RT Services”.
Within 2017, more than 14 million visits to doctors have been registered in electronic form. More than 500 large medical institution are connected to the Internet by fiber-optic communication lines and ADSL. It is planned to connect 214 institutions more in 2018.
Together with the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Tatarstan, the "Central Archive of Medical Images" module has been improved as of today. The archive stores more than 2 million digital researches. In 2017, a project engaged in giving out sick-lists in electronic form was launched in Tatarstan. In 2018, the project was put into commercial operation in all the medical institutions of the Republic.

In E-education and culture: 
The “E-education” system in the Republic of Tatarstan currently has more than one million users registered in it. The most popular services of the system are the Electronic Class-Book that all teachers in Tatarstan now use in their work, the Electronic School Diary that is viewed by parents and pupils for their marks over 100.000 thousand times per day, and the “School Card” needed to enter the school and to pay for meals in the school canteen. Moreover, teachers can be evaluated, have their skills improved and participate in professional competitions via this system.
In informatization of culture, efforts have been made to unify all public libraries within the Single Information Space GIS “National Electronic Library of the Republic of Tatarstan”; a single library card has been introduced which allows people to get services in any public library in the Republic of Tatarstan. Today, over 300.000 readers have registered in the system with more than 770 library records contained in the Central Electronic Catalogue of Tatarstans’ libraries. Museums work to create a Single Catalogue of Museum Exhibits in the Republic of Tatarstan which will serve to arrange virtual exhibitions. A ticket system has been put in place in 10 theatres and 5 museums which allows selling tickets in electronic form, including via the Portal of State and Municiphal Services of the Republic of Tatarstan.

In communications and television:
For three years, Tatarstan has been the leader in terms of the number of fixed access high-speed internet’s subscribers in the Volga Federal district amounting to more than one million users in the Republic of Tatarstan. The penetration rate of broadband Internet access in the Republic of Tatarstan has reached 76%. In 2017, a Federal project aimed at eliminating the digital inequality in the Russian regions was completed in Tatarstan. Residents of 676 settlements (with a population of 250 to 500 people) – that is about 250.000 people - can now use the broadband Internet access services via Wi-Fi. In addition, more than 11.000 households are connected to broadband Internet access via fiber-optic communication lines laid in 222 settlements.
There are 6.500.000 mobile subscribers in Tatarstan. More than 14.000 base stations are operated in the Republic, providing 3G and 4G coverage. In 2017, the regional infrastructure company Interregional Infrastructure Group, LLC was founded in order to ensure a quality radio coverage of cellular communication in bottleneck areas with low cost effectiveness for the mobile network operators. In 2018, a pilot area of the fifth generation 5G network was launched in the city of high technologies Innopolis.
In Tatarstan, 56% of households have cable TV, 26% of them have satellite TV and 13% of families are connected to IP TV. Taking into account the development of modern technologies, the over-the-air broadcasting network is also making progress. It was in Kazan that over-the-air DVB T2-standard digital broadcasting was launched for the first time in Russia on March 1, 2012, and on June 25, 2013, Kazan went on to become the first city in the Russian Federation to launch the second multiplex. Today, the Republic is working to equip multi-apartment buildings with networks of communal over-the-air television network allowing to receive TV channels in digital format free of charge.
In Tatarstan, the work on transferring overhead communication lines underground is in progress. The work is aimed at improving the reliability of communication, ensuring the physical integrity of wires, protecting information, improving the outer look of streets and, as a result, improving the quality of life of residents in the Republic of Tatarstan. More than 2.000 km of overhead lines have been dismantled as of now; the remaining 1.600 km are to be laid under the ground within the next five years. 9 cities with a population of more than 50.000 people are involved in this project, to name: Kazan, Naberezhnye Chelny, Nizhnekamsk, Zelenodolsk, Bugulma, Almetyevsk, Yelabuga, Leninogorsk, Chistopol.

In innovation development: 
The technopark in the field of high technologies "IT-Park" - located on two sites –Kazan and Naberezhnye Chelny, was among the best technoparks in the country according to the national rating of Russian technoparks in 2017. More than 200 (software) developments of IT Park residents are included in the Russian register of import substitution, which sums up to be 85% of all the solutions deriving from Tatarstan. The start-up ecosystem in IT has been expanding with more than 700 million rubles raised for start-ups of the Russian largest business incubator.
A new city for IT-professionals called Innopolis has been built in the Verkhneuslonsky District of the Republic of Tatarstan. Now there are over 3.500 people in Innopolis on a daily basis. 150 companies have been registered there of which 75 are residents and partners of the SEZ Innopolis. All the basic infrastructure is present: 16 residential buildings, a kindergarten, a school, an IT-lyceum, medical and sports centers. A post office, banks, a supermarket, a beauty salon, a car wash, a cafe, a bar and other household organizations also operate in the city. 
Russia's first Innopolis University for the IT-industry has been established to specialize in education and in scientific research in the field of modern information technologies. Its main purpose is to train highly qualified IT-specialists as well as to develop and commercialize disruptive technologies to take the domestic IT-industry to a qualitatively new level.

In training qualified human resources:
In order to develop the IT industry, the industry-specific education has to evolve. Today, Tatarstan is implementing the IT cluster educational projects of the Republic in the field of secondary, additional, professional and higher education. The Inter-regional Center of Competence in the field of Information and Communication Technologies has been founded as part of the Kazan Technical School of Information Technologies and Communications under the authority of the Ministry of Informatization and Communication of the Republic of Tatarstan. There is a training site for the preparation of the WorldSkills national team in IT competencies, as well as a training center, which takes part in developing Federal State Educational Standards (FSES) for vocational secondary education.
The Ministry of Informatization and Communication of the Republic of Tatarstan actively supports the professional excellence international movement WorldSkills which secures the team of the Republic of Tatarstan top places in IT competences in championships of both Russian and international level. In 2017, Innopolis hosted the first ever DigitalSkills IT championship-among young professionals under the age of 28 years. It was attended by 120 participants and 118 experts - employees of small, medium and large businesses in the field, students of secondary and higher education. Much work is under way in the Olympiad movement; the Ministry of Informatization and Communication is the direct organizer of the annual Russian Robot Olympiad.




</doc>
<doc id="41067896" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067896" title="1997 in Philippine television">
1997 in Philippine television

The following is a list of events affecting Philippine television in 1997. Events listed include television show debuts, finales, cancellations, and channel launches, closures and rebrandings, as well as information about controversies and carriage disputes.








</doc>
<doc id="41067900" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067900" title="Otto Griebel">
Otto Griebel

Otto Griebel (31 March 1895 – 7 March 1972) was a German painter. In 1933 he was arrested by the Gestapo and his paintings were branded as degenerate art. His painting "Child at a Table" was one of the artworks found in the 2012 Munich artworks discovery.



</doc>
<doc id="41067903" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067903" title="Çamurlu">
Çamurlu

Çamurlu, meaning "muddy" in Turkish, may refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="41067907" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067907" title="Lig Jou Stem Op">
Lig Jou Stem Op

Lig Jou Stem Op (Afrikaans for "Lift Up Your Voice") is the second studio christian album release by the pop/opera vocal quartet group Romanz. The album was released on November 8, 2013. It is the last project for the band before disbanding in 2014.


</doc>
<doc id="41067914" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067914" title="Flabellipecten">
Flabellipecten

Flabellipecten is a genus of large scallops or saltwater clams, marine bivalve mollusks in the family Pectinidae, the scallops.




</doc>
<doc id="41067916" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067916" title="Kuvikal Point">
Kuvikal Point

Kuvikal Point (, ‘Nos Kuvikal’ \'nos 'ku-vi-k&l\) is the point on the east side of the entrance to Transmarisca Bay and the west side of the entrance to Suregetes Cove on the north coast of Krogh Island in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica. The eponymous group of small "Kuvikal Islands", centred off the point at , extends in southwest-northeast direction and in south-southeast to north-northwest direction.

The point is named after Kuvikal Peak in the Rhodope Mountains, Bulgaria.

Kuvikal Point is located at , which is east-southeast of Edholm Point and west of Burton Point. British mapping in 1976.





</doc>
<doc id="41067925" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067925" title="Wargaming (company)">
Wargaming (company)

Wargaming Group Limited (also known as Wargaming.net) is a Belarusian video game company headquartered in Nicosia, Cyprus. The group operates across more than 20 offices globally and development studios, the largest of which is located in Minsk, where the company originated from. Initially focused on turn-based strategy and real-time strategy games, Wargaming switched to developing free-to-play online action games in 2009, including the military-themed team-based game "World of Tanks".

Wargaming was founded by Victor Kislyi in Minsk on 2 August 1998, intending the company as a developer of strategy video games. The company's first project was "DBA Online"—the digital version of a miniature tabletop rule set "De Bellis Antiquitatis"—launched in 2000. Wargaming started working on its first full-scale commercial project—the sci-fi turn-based strategy game "Massive Assault", in March 2002. Over the course of five years, the company shipped five projects within the "Massive Assault" franchise.

On 16 November 2007, Wargaming acquired the Minsk-based developer Arise. In December 2008, the company released its first real-time strategy "Operation Bagration". On 16 April 2009, Wargaming started working on real-time strategy game "Order of War". It was published by Square Enix on 18 September 2009. On 12 August 2010, the company released its first online title, "World of Tanks". On 12 April 2011, "World of Tanks" was released in North America and Europe.

In 2011, Wargaming relocated its headquarters from Minsk to Nicosia, Cyprus. Since 17 August 2015, these headquarters are located in the Wargaming HQ building, formerly known as the President building, located near the Presidential Palace in Nicosia. European operations headquarters, known as Wargaming Europe, were established in Paris, France, in July 2011. On 3 August 2011, the company created a direct presence in North America by opening an office in San Francisco. At E3 2011, Wargaming announced the follow-up to "World of Tanks", the flight combat online action game "World of Warplanes". At Gamescom 2011, the company unveiled the third part of its military saga—the naval action online game "World of Warships". In October 2011, Wargaming announced the online collectible card MMO game "World of Tanks: Generals". Throughout 2011, Wargaming joined strategic partnerships with Persha Studia, Lesta Studio and DAVA Consulting, with each operating separate projects under Wargaming.

On 21 February 2012, the Android version of "World of Tanks Assistant", the mobile application for "World of Tanks", went live in Europe and North America. In May 2012, Wargaming entered the Korean games market by opening a subsidiary office in Seoul. Wargaming embarked on a rebranding initiative and announced the Wargaming.net service, which will unite its games and services into a single battle universe in June 2012. On 7 August 2012, Wargaming acquired Australian company BigWorld Technology which brought development of the middleware for its MMO projects in-house. In an annual report for the Cyprus Stock Exchange (CSE) in 2012, Wargaming's revenue was declared to be 217.9 million Euro, with a net profit of 6.1 million Euro. Wargaming's shares were delisted from the CSE in 2015, and it remains a privately held company to date.

Wargaming moved into the console market by acquiring Day 1 Studios on 29 January 2013. Renamed Wargaming Chicago-Baltimore, the studios are currently developing "" (February 2014), Xbox One (July 2015) and PlayStation 4 (January 2016). On 12 February 2013, Wargaming announced its own eSports league, the Wargaming.net League. The company acquired Gas Powered Games on 14 February 2013. On 26 March 2013, Wargaming announced "World of Tanks Blitz", a mobile MMO game centered around tank combat available for smartphones and tablets. The game was released on iOS in June 2014. As of 2016, "World of Tanks Blitz" is available on iOS, Android, Windows 10 and Mac OS X. Wargaming branched into the Japanese games market by opening an office in Tokyo on 29 May 2013. On 22 July 2013, the company bought "Total Annihilation" and "Master of Orion" intellectual properties from the Atari bankruptcy proceedings.

In July 2015, Wargaming launched WG Labs as a division that would act as a third-party publisher to outside developers. The creation of the division was primarily driven by Wargaming's partnership with independent studio NGD Studios and their game, "Master of Orion". In October, the company also rebranded DropForge, a Bellevue, Washington-based mobile game studio founded in 2013 by David Bluhm, as WG Cells. WG Cells was shut down in August 2016.

Wargaming's WG Labs division released a reimagining of "Master of Orion" in August 2016. The game was developed by the Argentine NGD Studios. In November 2016 Wargaming, SEGA and Creative Assembly announced a new strategic partnership that will see Total War: ARENA published worldwide. As of 2016, Wargaming owns a significant share of the Hellenic Bank (Daniel S. Loeb's Third Point Group is the other major shareholder of the Cyprus-based Bank) and has shown an interest in purchasing land property assets in Cyprus for its use and investment purposes. Wargaming has become the largest taxpayer within Cyprus.

In May 2017, Wargaming found itself amidst controversy when it was claimed that one of its employees had threatened to file a Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) claim against YouTube gaming content creator SirFoch over his scathing review of a "World of Tanks" premium tank. In 2017, Wargaming started a mobile games division called Wargaming Mobile. In February 2018, Wargaming America closed its Emeryville offices, cutting 100 jobs.



Since 2013, Wargaming runs its own esports organisation, the Wargaming.net League, which serves as a platform for "World of Tanks" pro-gamers, with each tournament year broken down into several seasons featuring a series of online and offline events that culminate in a massive online tournament, Grand Finals.

Wargaming is involved in a number of projects to preserve military cultural heritage, including:

As part of its simulation initiatives, Wargaming is exploring virtual and augmented reality technologies. In early 2015, the company worked with Google to record and portray a 1941 battle in 360° for the Google Cardboard mobile HMD. This was followed by a series of panoramic tours of WWII tanks, "Virtually Inside the Tanks Retrieved", filmed in co-operation with Google and The Tank Museum in Bovington. Available via the Littlstar VR cinema network, the series currently includes the T-34-76, the M4 Sherman "Fury" from the Brad Pitt movie of the same name, the Type 59, Leopard 1, and the Chieftain. Each video also offers a tour with Wargaming military specialists Richard Cutland and Nicolas Moran.

To honour Victory Day, Wargaming released the "War Knows No Nation" video. The video rekindles the memories of three veteran World War II tankers, blending live action panorama footage with CG scenes for the very first time. In spring 2016, Wargaming worked with the National Museum of the Royal Navy, Portsmouth Historic Dockyard and honoured the anniversary of the Battle of Jutland with an augmented reality app: "HMS Caroline" AR Experience. To congratulate Russians on Navy Day, Wargaming created a PortHub augmented reality mobile app that allowed users take snapshots with warships. As part of the 100 Years of Tanks celebration, Wargaming presented the "Virtually inside the First Tanks 360°" video that featured a walkthrough of Bovington's collection of early tanks, enhanced by "World of Tanks" in-game scenes and the free Tank 100 mobile app. Another in its range of 360° videos, "Virtual Inside the Warships", features "HMS Cavalier" amongst others.




</doc>
<doc id="41067944" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067944" title="1930 Palestine Cup">
1930 Palestine Cup

The 1930 Palestine Cup (, "HaGavia HaEretz-Israeli") was the third season of Israeli Football Association's nationwide football cup competition. The defending holders were Maccabi Tel Aviv.

For the second (and last) season, teams were allowed to enter their reserve teams, and such teams were entered on behalf of Hapoel Haifa, Hapoel Tel Aviv and Maccabi Tel Aviv. Maccabi's B team eventually won the cup, a feat achieve by fielding the stronger A team under the guise of the B team. This was allowed as the club chose to forfeit their A team's first round tie away against Hapoel Haifa B, while the B team won their tie easily, and thus keeping their A team from being cup-tied and allowing their A Team players to play for the B team for the remainder of the competition.

Maccabi Tel Aviv B (as registered) won the cup, beating the British team of the Northamptonshire Regiment 2–1 in the final, which was held on Hapoel Tel Aviv ground.

First round matches started on 15 February 1930. The rest of the matches were played the following Saturday. The replay between British Police and RAF Amman was delayed as the soldiers were in military duty, and was finally played on 8 March 1930.

The quarter-finals matches started on 1 March 1930.



</doc>
<doc id="41067950" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067950" title="Marcus Licinius Scribonianus Camerinus">
Marcus Licinius Scribonianus Camerinus

Marcus Licinius Scribonianus Camerinus was a wealthy Roman Senator that lived in the Roman Empire in the 1st century.

Camerinus was a member of the "gens" Licinia, an aristocratic plebeian family that had a distinguished lineage. He was one of the sons and among the children born to Marcus Licinius Crassus Frugi consul of 64, son of Roman Politician Marcus Licinius Crassus Frugi and Scribonia, by his wife Sulpicia Praetextata daughter of the suffect consul in 46, Quintus Sulpicius Camerinus Peticus. He was born and raised in Rome.

The father of Camerinus, Frugi was executed by the Roman emperor Nero between 66 and 68, because of information brought against him by Marcus Aquilius Regulus. After the death of Frugi, his mother took Camerinus with his siblings, to a Roman Senate meeting in 70 early in the reign of Roman emperor Vespasian, seeking vengeance for his father’s death. Regulus with his associated political circle was prosecuted by the Roman Senate.

His name has been found in a funerary inscription in Rome of his daughter, Licinia Cornelia Volusia Torquata. The inscription which is dated from the second half of the 1st century til the first half of the 2nd century, is now on display at the National Museum of Rome. The inscription which reads in Latin is translated in English:

Camerinus had an adventurous runaway slave called Geta who impersonated him who bore his name as Licinius Scribonianus Camerinus. In 69 during the brief reign of Roman emperor Vitellius, he wanted to upset the emperor and his government. Geta pretended to have been obliged to leave Rome in the time of Roman emperor Nero and to have since then lived concealed in Histria, because he belonged to the Crassi family which owned large possessions in Histria. Geta successfully managed to assemble around him the local population and even some soldiers who were misled by him or wished for a revolution. However Geta was seized and brought before Vitellius. When Geta’s real origin was revealed, Vitellius had him executed as a common slave.



</doc>
<doc id="41067981" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41067981" title="Swimming at the 2013 Bolivarian Games">
Swimming at the 2013 Bolivarian Games

Swimming (Spanish:"Natación"), for the 2013 Bolivarian Games, took place from 17 November to 20 November 2013.

Key:


</doc>
<doc id="41068001" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068001" title="Transmarisca Bay">
Transmarisca Bay

Transmarisca Bay (, ‘Zaliv Transmarisca’ \'za-liv trans-ma-'ri-ska\) is the 4.3 km wide bay indenting for 3.2 km the north coast of Krogh Island in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica. It is entered east of Edholm Point and west of Kuvikal Point.

The bay is named after the ancient Roman town of Transmarisca in Northeastern Bulgaria.

Transmarisca Bay is centred at . British mapping in 1976.





</doc>
<doc id="41068013" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068013" title="Canarium acutifolium">
Canarium acutifolium

Canarium acutifolium is a forest tree species, of the plant family Burseraceae, growing naturally in New Guinea, the Moluccas, Sulawesi, New Britain, New Ireland, Bougainville and in lowland north-eastern Queensland, Australia.

In 1917 botanist Elmer D. Merrill was the first to formally describe this species name, based on de Candolle's 1825 name "Marignia acutifolia" which was in turn based on earlier Rumphius's 1600s description from "Amboina", Ambon Island, in the Moluccas Islands. Furthermore, Merrill also based his description on a 1913 type specimen collection from Ambon by Robinson to represent Rumphius’s Ambon description and on other synonymous names described in between these times.

The species has four recognised varieties, three have descriptions in "Flora Malesiana" and more recently in 2000 botanist Wayne Takeuchi described a new fourth variety of isolated known occurrence in New Guinea:

In Australia, "C. acutifolium" var. "acutifolium" grows naturally below ca. altitude in the scarce remaining lowland rainforests of the Wet Tropics region of north-eastern Queensland. These only known natural populations of the species in the nation have obtained the national and Qld governments' "vulnerable" species conservation status.


</doc>
<doc id="41068020" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068020" title="2013–14 South Dakota State Jackrabbits men's basketball team">
2013–14 South Dakota State Jackrabbits men's basketball team

The 2013–14 South Dakota State Jackrabbits men's basketball team represented South Dakota State University during the 2013–14 NCAA Division I men's basketball season. The Jackrabbits, led by 19th year head coach Scott Nagy, played their home games at Frost Arena and were members of The Summit League. They finished the season 19–13, 10–4 in The Summit League play to finish in a tie for second place. They advanced to the semifinals of The Summit League Tournament where they lost to IPFW. They were invited to the College Basketball Invitational where they lost in the first round to Old Dominion.

!colspan=9 style="background:#003896; color:#F7D417;"| Exhibition
!colspan=9 style="background:#003896; color:#F7D417;"| Regular season

!colspan=9 style="background:#003896; color:#F7D417;"| The Summit League Tournament
!colspan=9 style="background:#003896; color:#F7D417;"| CBI

<nowiki>*</nowiki> The January 3 game vs. Buffalo was postponed due to inclement weather in the Northeast. The game was not rescheduled.


</doc>
<doc id="41068024" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068024" title="Yeongwol Challenger Tennis">
Yeongwol Challenger Tennis

Yeongwol Challenger Tennis is a professional tennis tournament played on outdoor hard courts in Yeongwol County, South Korea. The first event was held on November 2013. Although the actual prize money is $35,000, the tournament belongs to the category of $50,000 and the ranking point is 80 for the winner, and 48 for the runner-up.


</doc>
<doc id="41068037" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068037" title="Synchronized swimming at the 2013 Bolivarian Games">
Synchronized swimming at the 2013 Bolivarian Games

Synchronized swimming (Spanish:"Nado Sincronizado"), for the 2013 Bolivarian Games, took place from 17 November to 20 November 2013.

Key:


</doc>
<doc id="41068039" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068039" title="Zagrade Point">
Zagrade Point

Zagrade Point (, ‘Nos Zagrade’ \'nos za-'gra-de\) is the point on the east side of the entrance to Suregetes Cove on the north coast of Krogh Island in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica.

The point is named after the historical settlement of Zagrade in Southwestern Bulgaria.

Zagrade Point is located at , which is 2.47 km east-northeast of Kuvikal Point and 1.98 km northwest of Burton Point. British mapping in 1976.





</doc>
<doc id="41068057" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068057" title="Jerónimo Gil">
Jerónimo Gil

Jerónimo Gil (born June 8, 1973) is a Venezuelan actor.

Jerónimo dated fellow actress Flavia Gleske and they have two children together, Allison Gil Gleske and Alan Gil Gleske. However, the couple broke up after Jerónimo ran his car through Flavia's apartment front door.




</doc>
<doc id="41068062" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068062" title="Table tennis at the 2013 Bolivarian Games">
Table tennis at the 2013 Bolivarian Games

Table tennis (Spanish:"Tenis de Mesa"), for the 2013 Bolivarian Games, took place from 25 November to 29 November 2013.

Key:


</doc>
<doc id="41068065" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068065" title="Megitsune">
Megitsune

The single was first announced for a June release on April 1, 2013. The single was released in four versions: a standard edition and three limited editions. The "Ki", "Tsu", and "Ne" ("Kitsune" means "fox" in Japanese) limited editions included single artwork focused on Nakamoto, Mizuno, and Kikuchi respectively, and their included DVDs feature footage of two songs from each of the live performances from "". Additionally, the single included a chance to contain a ticket to the premium event Kitsune Festival at Meguro Rock May Kan on July 14, 2013.

To promote the release, the band was featured in the June issue of "Marquee" and on the cover of the July issue of "Hedoban", in addition to collaborating with Tower Records for the 34th rendition of the event "No Music, No Idol?".

The was a promotional concert tour by Babymetal, occurring in conjunction with the promotion of "Megitsune". The band performed four shows, with two on the final tour date, at the same venue. Customers who purchased tickets to the tour could receive an exclusive edition of the single, with a remix by Yuyoyuppe, under the name DJ'Tekina//Something.

According to Mizuno, the tour was designed to be a "training tour". During each of the four shows the three members wore stage costumes for the eras of "Doki Doki ☆ Morning" (which had become nostalgically small for them), "Headbangeeeeerrrrr!!!!!", and "Ijime, Dame, Zettai", respectively, with the final show premiering new costumes for "Megitsune".

"Megitsune" has been described as "festival metal". Alongside the serious heavy metal tone, there is a mix of Western-style and Eastern-style music, noticeably with the use of Japanese festival instruments. Unlike screams in traditional heavy metal, "Megitsune" is filled with festival chants by Mizuno and Kikuchi like ""wasshoi"" and ""sore sore"", while Nakamoto sings in the melodramatic style of enka. The bridge has significant variety in genre, with elements of dubstep as well as interpolations from the traditional Japanese folk song "Sakura Sakura".

The song contains lyrics such as "from the time of birth, women are actresses" which reflect on the song's theme of women remaining strong when living with their varied facial expressions. The song relates foxes, which disguises themselves for deception in Japanese mythology, to women, who disguise themselves with makeup. According to Nakamoto, foxes are similar to women as they can keep their true feeling hidden, even through hard times, leaving a cool impression. The last chorus contains the phrase , which is also famously said by Masako Natsume's character in the 1982 yakuza film "Onimasa"; whether or not this was intentional has never been confirmed.

Recording had begun shortly after "Ijime, Dame, Zettai", with a tone reminiscent of "Doki Doki ☆ Morning" and "Iine!". After several rounds of remixing, taiko drums were added while the lyrics remained the same. In a "Billboard" interview about the band's album "Metal Resistance", Su-metal explained that the song "is popular among international fans, and I have a feeling that "Karate" will be something close to "Megitsune."" George Garner of "Kerrang!" called the song "the most hyper song [Babymetal] have ever put their name to."

Performed solely by Nakamoto, is considered to be in the genre of speed metal. The song debuted as background music during the first live performance of "Iine!". Nakamoto went through voice training as the song was challenging with high tones. With more performances, her vocal performance improved as she stopped singing flat. Being her first solo, Nakamoto felt accomplished being able to sing the entire song by herself. While writing about the band's performance at Wembley Arena, Mark Beaumont contrasted it with the previous songs "Awadama Fever", "Iine!", and "Yava!", stating it had a darker tone, as "a show-tune ballad sung by Su-metal in a black cape, running along a flame-flanked ego ramp".

Under the stage name "Black Babymetal", Mizuno and Kikuchi perform in the style of rap metal, with dialogue-style lyrics in the nature of small devils. Due to the childish nature of the lyrics, Mizuno sang the song like a baby. Nakamoto has background vocals in the chorus, in a cool manner. Daniel Robson of "The Guardian" called the lyrics of "Babymetal" "delightfully tongue-in-cheek", explaining how "Onedari Daisakusen" "offers practical advice to teens on how to extract extra pocket money from one’s father with a well-timed shoulder-massage/flattery combo".

"Megitsune" received positive acclaim from music critics. Tomonori Shiba of "M-ON! Press" wrote that "Megitsune" has an intro filled with the shamisen, bass guitar, synths, and flying shouts of "Sore! Sore!", signifying its festival-like nature, fusing the genres of metalcore and ""wa"" (和; Japanese elements). Like the music of Crossfaith and Fear, and Loathing in Las Vegas, it contains elements of electro-trance music. He further compared Nakamoto's vocal performance to that of Evanescence band member Amy Lee, calling the line "Kitsune. Kitsune. I am Megitsune" in the bridge stimulating. Patrick St. Michel of "The Japan Times" considered the song one of the highlights on the album, praising it for not depending on the band's "gimmicks". He further called it and "Doki Doki ☆ Morning" memorable and similarly constructed to "Gimme Chocolate!!".

While reviewing a performance at Brixton Academy, Colin McQuistan of "The Huffington Post UK" described "Akatsuki" as an opportunity for Nakamoto to "show off her remarkably powerful voice", while "wonderfully bonkers" "Onedari Daisakusen" gave Mizuno and Kikuchi an opportunity to "lead the audience on a wildly merry journey".

The single peaked at number seven on the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart, selling 22,000 copies that week. The song also charted on the "Billboard Japan" Hot 100, peaking at number 16 in the week of July 1, 2013. It also managed to peak at number two on the Oricon Daily Singles Chart.

"Megitsune" was used as the opening theme for the Japanese talk/variety show "".

"Megitsune" is used as one of the two pieces of walk-on music for Japanese darts player Mikuru Suzuki, the other being "Baby Shark" by Pinkfong.

A teaser for the single, featuring a sulphur-crested cockatoo named Robin seemingly headbanging to the song, was first uploaded to YouTube via the Toy's Factory channel on May 31, 2013, with the full music video, directed by , uploaded to the official Babymetal channel on June 4, 2013.

The music video was shot on location at the Asagaya Shinmei Shrine in Tokyo; it is now a popular spot for Babymetal fans from outside Japan to visit. The three members are shown dancing in Noh theater alongside the "Kitsune band" (using traditional Japanese instruments) within the traditional scenery of Japan; this forms the significant contrast found in the music (specifically between metal and "wa"), which has since garnered over 45 million views as of November 2017. In the last chorus, Nakamoto threateningly reveals that her microphone contains a hidden blade, while saying the aforementioned phrase "underestimate maidens at your own peril".

During the shooting of the music video, Kikuchi's outfit tore at the armpit; similar incidents had previously occurred at live performances.

Prior to the release of the single, "Megitsune" was performed live on the Nippon Broadcasting System program "MC Plus" on June 4, 2013. The band also performed the song at the single's release event Pray for Success with "Inarin" & Mini Live at Tower Records Shibuya on June 22, 2013. The next day, the song was performed again at a free concert at the DiverCity Tokyo Plaza Festival. The band performed the song on the Nippon TV program "Music Dragon", which would be broadcast on June 21, 2013. Later, they performed the song on the NHK General TV program "Music Japan Annex", which was broadcast on July 16, 2013. In February 2014, the band performed the song with Taiwanese band Chthonic.

During the live performances, Nakamoto is shown holding a Kitsune mask to her face during the bridge, before tossing it out into the crowd.

Standard edition
"Ki", "Tsu", and "Ne" limited edition

May Revolution Exclusive promotional edition
Credits adapted from "Megitsune" standard and limited "Tsu" single liner notes.

Recording and management

Personnel

Violinist covered "Megitsune" on the violin; the song appeared on her 2016 album "Sakura Symphony".

On December 7, 2014, Sakura Gakuin members Aiko Yamaide and Megumi Okada covered "Onedari Daisakusen" as a "One-Night Shuffle Unit" in the concert Sakura Gakuin ☆ 2014: Celebration in December.



</doc>
<doc id="41068067" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068067" title="Suregetes Cove">
Suregetes Cove

Suregetes Cove (, ‘Zaliv Suregetes’ \'za-liv su-re-'ge-tes\) is the 2.47 km wide cove indenting for 1.9 km the N coast of Krogh Island in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica. It is entered east of Kuvikal Point and west of Zagrade Point.

The cove is named after the Thracian god Suregetes.

Suregetes Cove is centred at . British mapping in 1976.





</doc>
<doc id="41068088" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068088" title="Cuproxena argentina">
Cuproxena argentina

Cuproxena argentina is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Argentina.


</doc>
<doc id="41068094" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068094" title="2013 Dominican Republic–Haiti diplomatic crisis">
2013 Dominican Republic–Haiti diplomatic crisis

The Dominican Republic (DR) and Haiti experienced a diplomatic crisis in 2013. The principal point of conflict was an issue of trade restrictions, but it unfolded against the background of the DR's attempt to return thousands of DR residents of Haitian descent to Haiti. More than 3,000 Haitians had been expelled from the DR in the first half of the year.

On June 6, 2013, Haiti imposed a ban on the importation of chickens and eggs from the DR, citing indications that there was an outbreak of bird flu there. DR officials said other types of flu but not bird flu had been identified. On June 10, the Pan American Health Organization stated that no cases of bird flu had been found in the DR.

On June 12, the President of the Dominican Republic, Danilo Medina, sent a committee led by the Secretary of Industry and Commerce, José Del Castillo Saviñón, to Port-au-Prince to resolve the dispute.

A meeting between Haitian Foreign Minister and Dominican Foreign Minister Carlos Morales on June 17 produced no resolution.

The DR ships 30 million eggs and 1.5 million chickens to Haiti monthly. By June 19, activity at the four border crossings between the two countries had come to a standstill. Medina announced that the DR would work to identify new markets and grow those already established in Puerto Rico and Venezuela. The head of the Dominican Association of Egg Producers said that thousands of poultry farm workers, who he identified as Haitians, would have to be fired. Casimir said Haiti wanted to find a way to reopen trade, while Medina said he could not wait and would have to take "drastic measures".

Presidents Michel Martelly of Haiti and Medina of the DR discussed their differences on 30 June during a meeting of the Petrocaribe oil alliance nations in Nicaragua. Medina said that Martelly admitted there were no problems with the quality of eggs and chickens from the Dominican Republic and that the ban had been imposed as a matter of economic policy based on Haiti's difficulty in collecting tax revenues associated with the imports. The import ban remained in place.

On July 19, the Haitian government prohibited the importation of plastics from the Dominican Republic, arguing that they were not of good quality and that Haiti needed to reduce pollution caused by plastic.

On September 23, 2013, the Dominican Republic Constitutional Court ruled that children born to non-citizens in the Dominican Republic after 1929 are not and have never been citizens of the Dominican Republic. Since 2010 the DR constitution has denied citizenship to any non-citizen born "in transit", but the court extended that language to cover any undocumented person resident in the DR and their descendants. The ruling affects 458,233 Haitian workers living in the Dominican Republic and it can leave more than 200,000 people stateless. One analysis reported that the court decision created the fifth largest groups of stateless people in the world. A group of writers who protested the ruling compared its impact to apartheid and said it represented "the reinstating of the old racism that many have fought against". They described its impact:

The government of the DR said the decision would allow for the proper documentation of non-citizens and allow the government to establish clearly their means of becoming legal residents of the DR. Advocates for the stateless criticized the DR's procedures as inadequate and ill-suited to an impoverished rural population that lacked the required birth registration records.

On October 1, Haiti recalled its ambassador from the Dominican Republic.

The Dominican government's acceptance of implementation of the court ruling was harshly criticized by NGO human rights offices, by 15 countries in the Caribbean Community (Caricom) and by the United Nations. Amnesty International said the DR had "effectively wiped four generations of Dominicans off the map".


</doc>
<doc id="41068097" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068097" title="Cuproxena astroboda">
Cuproxena astroboda

Cuproxena astroboda is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Paraná, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41068104" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068104" title="Cuproxena auga">
Cuproxena auga

Cuproxena auga is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. Its type locality is Curitiba, Paraná, Brazil, and its range includes parts of northern Argentina, Bolivia, and southeastern Brazil, including Bahia, Espírito Santo and Santa Catarina.

It was moved from the genus "Dorithia" to "Cuproxena" in 1991.


</doc>
<doc id="41068112" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068112" title="Cuproxena binotata">
Cuproxena binotata

Cuproxena binotata is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Santa Catarina, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41068115" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068115" title="Vladigerov Passage">
Vladigerov Passage

Vladigerov Passage (, ‘Vladigerov Protok’ \vla-di-'ge-rov 'pro-tok\) is the passage long 5.8 km in southwest-northeast direction and 1.05 km wide in Biscoe Islands, Antarctica between Lavoisier Island on the east and Krogh Island on the west. The eponymous "Vladigerov Island", 420 m long in southwest-northeast direction and 150 m wide, is lying in the narrowest part of the passage centred at , formed as a result of the retreat of the ice cap of Lavoisier Island in the early 21st century.

The passage is named after the Bulgarian composer Pancho Vladigerov (1899-1978).

Vladigerov Passage is centred at . British mapping in 1976.





</doc>
<doc id="41068116" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068116" title="Cuproxena bramiliana">
Cuproxena bramiliana

Cuproxena bramiliana is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41068121" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068121" title="Rab Ton Sohna Ishq">
Rab Ton Sohna Ishq

Rab Ton Sohna Ishq is an upcoming Punjabi action/romantic film directed by Vicky J who had earlier directed "You & Me". The film is releasing on 13 December 2013. Navraj Hans also has guest appearance in this movie.

Story of "Rabb Ton Sohna Ishq" is about innocent love of Kiran and Sooraj, who get parted in childhood. Little Sooraj and Kiran are forcefully separated by Kiran's elder brother Taskar bandookchi, who is a Don. The story advances 12 years, where the city Makdoompura is fully influenced with Mafia. Two groups in the city – Bandookchi and Afeemchi – are like bulls, who keep striking their horns time to time. Taskar and Babban bandookchi are elder brothers of Kiran. Kiran has grown up n now is a collegiate. She is the younger one in the house so her brothers are very protective about her. On the other side Little Sooraj has been named Surjan by the society he grew up in. Being an orphan from childhood made Surjan face a lot of consequences. He has hatred for the wrong people, but somewhere in his heart he has a soft corner for his lost love Kiran. This love has made him a poet as well as a Gunda. A rare combination to be found. He gets his books published by the name Sooraj. But he never discloses his identity in public. Kiran is also a fan of Sooraj's writings, but she doesn’t know that he is the same Sooraj, whom she loves from her childhood.One day they both meet by accident, Kiran happily tells this to his elder brother, and he asks her to call him to meet him at the temple. When they reach their, the anti party attacks taskar bandookchi. In that accident taskar goes to coma. Kiran's other brother Babban comes to know about Sooraj and he locks Kiran in the house. On the other side Sooraj goes to meet Afeemchi who attacked kirans elder brother. He fights with him and tells him who he is. Affemchi n Babban join hands together. One day kirans runs from her house n her elder brother taskar helps her in that. When babban gets to know this he runs after Kiran n Sooraj, with the help of afeemchi. When dey get close to them, Babban kills afeemchi. Den comes the final combat between Sooraj and Babban. And finally love wins and the story ends with a true and fact-full message that love always wins.



</doc>
<doc id="41068127" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068127" title="Indira Gandhi University, Rewari">
Indira Gandhi University, Rewari

Indira Gandhi University, Rewari (IGU) is a state university located in Village Meerpur, Rewari, Haryana, India. It was established in 2013 by the Government of Haryana.

The university began its way as the Post Graduate Regional Centre of Maharishi Dayanand University, established in 1988. It was established under Haryana Act No.29 of 2013 and started functioning on 13 September 2013.

The university campus is spread over about of rural land situated in village Meerpur at a distance of about from Rewari, about from Chandigarh.

The university includes the following faculties:



</doc>
<doc id="41068135" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068135" title="Dzhargalakh">
Dzhargalakh

Dzhargalakh (; ) is a rural locality (a "selo"), the only inhabited locality, and the administrative center of Verkhnebytantaysky Rural Okrug of Eveno-Bytantaysky National District in the Sakha Republic, Russia, located from Batagay-Alyta, the administrative center of the district. Its population as of the 2010 Census was 269, down from 285 recorded during the 2002 Census.



</doc>
<doc id="41068141" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068141" title="Cuproxena cara">
Cuproxena cara

Cuproxena cara is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="41068145" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068145" title="Hittalakoppa">
Hittalakoppa

Hittalakoppa is one of the major villages of Siddapura taluk in Karwar District (Karnataka State), India. It is 11km away from Siddapur and 25 km away from Sagar city and 77.68 km from the city of Shimoga, 216 km from port city Mangalore and 323 km from state capital Bangalore.

Hittalakoppa lies in the Western Ghats of India. Nearby villages are Kavanchuru (2 km), Hosahalli (4 km), Arenduru (5 km), Nejjuru (4 km), Sulluru (5 km).
Nearest Places to visit:

Agriculture is the main source of income for the residents. Land is very fertile and there is abundant water. Areca nut and paddy are the most grown crops.

There are three major temples in this village.


Once in 7 years, Maarikaamba fair will be held which is most popular fair in surrounding places.
Main festivals of this villages are Mahashivarathri, Ugadi, Aridramale habba (Festival to welcome rain called Aaridra), Chouti (Ganesha festival), Bhoomi Hunnime and Deepavali.

Talaguppa is the nearest railway station and it is 8 km away. Daily trains are available to reach Bangalore and Mysore city from Talaguppa.

Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation and private bus services are available.


</doc>
<doc id="41068146" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068146" title="Laura Montgomery">
Laura Montgomery

Laura Montgomery (born 25 December 1975) is a Scottish football manager and former player. She played for and captained Glasgow City for 12 years after founding the club in 1998 with her friend Carol Anne Stewart. As a central defender, she won five Scottish Women's Premier League winner's medals, three Scottish Women's Cup winner's medals and played in the UEFA Women's Champions League. Since her playing retirement in 2010, Montgomery has continued in her club manager role and oversees all aspects of running Glasgow City. She is a leading advocate of women's football in Scotland.

Montgomery did not play organised football until she went to university. After joining a nearby team Maryhill Eagles, she suffered a cruciate ligament injury at the age of 19 and was unable to play for three years: "I didn't know who would give me a game when I was fit again, so I decided to organise a properly run team, and play for them. So I started Glasgow City with a friend, Carol Anne Stewart."

Ambitious Glasgow City were promoted into the Scottish Women's Premier League in their first season. With Montgomery as centre back and captain, they developed into Scotland's dominant team during the following decade. In 2010, she made her 250th competitive appearance for the club in June, then stopped playing in November after leading the team to a fourth successive league title.

Montgomery trained as a lawyer at Glasgow University and in 2013 was working as a consultant in the oil and gas industry. In June 2017, she joined Hibernian F.C. as their head of sales and sponsorship.

She has been an outspoken critic of sexist and misogynist attitudes to women's sports in Scotland.

Her partner Kat Lindner, who also played for Glasgow City, died suddenly in February 2019.



</doc>
<doc id="41068155" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068155" title="Cuproxena cornuta">
Cuproxena cornuta

Cuproxena cornuta is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Costa Rica.


</doc>
<doc id="41068159" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068159" title="Developmental differences in solitary facial expressions">
Developmental differences in solitary facial expressions

Facial expressions are used to communicate emotions. They can also occur solitarily, without other people being present. People often imagine themselves in social situations when alone, resulting in solitary facial expressions. Toddlers and children in early childhood use social cues and contexts to discriminate and recognize facial expressions. They develop at this early stage facial expressions in order to provoke reactions from their caregivers and receive nurturance and support. Children reflect their peers' emotions in their own expressions for social interaction.

Facial expression discrimination and expression develop at varying rates in children. During middle childhood and adolescence, the abilities to discriminate and produce facial expressions are still on their way toward achieving full potential. Considering that the ability to discriminate and produce facial expressions develop independently, there is a gap between a child's capacity to discriminate an emotion on another's face and their capacity to produce certain emotions, such as anger or fear. Fear and anger are more difficult expressions to produce than happiness, a possible explanation being that children are socialized not to produce these, considered socially undesirable. Further research is required to fully explore this idea.

Facial expressions are produced to express a reaction to a situation or event or to evoke a response from another individual or individuals. They are signals of emotion and social intent. People make faces in response to "direct audience effects" when they are watching sports, discussing politics, eating or smelling, in pain, and see or hear something humorous. While one may have the same emotional reaction to a particular situation, he or she is more likely to express this emotion via a facial expression if they are in a social situation. Smiles, in particular, are "evolved signaling displays [that] are the result of selective pressures for conspicuous, stereotyped, and redundant communication". Smiling is a visual signal that requires eye contact from the recipient to the one smiling and is intended to communicate a feeling of happiness and joy. In an experiment by Alan Fridlund, smiling occurred least when one was watching a video alone, then more often when a person was alone watching the video but believed a friend was performing another task, even more often when that person believed a friend was simultaneously watching the video somewhere else, and most often when one was watching a movie with a friend physically present. This evidence shows that even if someone has the same internal reaction to a stimulus (like a movie), they are more likely to externalize these feelings when surrounded by peers or under the assumption that peers are engaged in the same activity.

The production of facial expressions, however, is not solely limited to interpersonal situations. Since humans are inherently social beings, they often imagine themselves in social situations even when they are alone. This phenomenon occurs in a variety of different contexts: treating oneself as a social interactant (talking to oneself), imagining others are present (either who are currently existent or have died), envisioning future social interactions, and personifying animals or inanimate objects (talking to pets). Solitary facial expressions are generated for an imagined other. According to role and impression- management theories, a perceived audience, whether real or imaginary, causes one to assume a role that is consistent with their audience. For example, a young girl may smile to herself in the mirror while imagining herself talking to a boy from class, but may grimace while imagining herself responding to her mother's scolding. Thus, "solitary faces occur for the same reasons as public ones, if only because when we are alone we create social interactions in our imaginations. They suggest the possibility that sociality may play a major role in the mediation of solitary faces". There are developmental differences in solitary facial expression, beginning with instinctive expressions in infancy and developing into more complex ones as a child's concept of sociality and emotion matures.

A concept of sociality is acquired over time and through various social interactions. It has long been theorized that children expand the ability to regulate their facial expressions during the course of their development and that their expressions become "socialized" as they grow up. But how soon does socialization start and how big of a role does it play during infancy?

Because infants cannot use words to tell us about their emotional states, their facial expressions are of particular importance. During infancy it is difficult to elicit discrete negative expressions like anger, distress and sadness, and, perhaps unsurprisingly, the most common infant facial expression is the "cry-face". Cry-face is thought to integrate aspects of both anger and distress expressions and may indicate a shared basis in negative emotionality. Smiling, on the other hand, is easily recognized as an expression of happiness, but even here there is a distinction between cheek-raising or Duchenne smiles and non-emotional smiles, which are thought to be used mainly as social signals. Even in 10-month-old infants, Duchenne smiles have been found to occur most often in reaction to infants' mothers.

According to Ekman and Friesen (1975), there are "display rules", influenced by one's culture, gender and family background which govern the way we modulate our emotional expression. Studies investigating mother-infant interaction suggest that infants are exposed to these "display rules" first during face-to-face play with mom. In a study performed by Malatesta and Haviland (1982) researchers found evidence that changes in emotional expression during infancy are greatly influenced by this type of interaction and that there were differences among infants under 6 months of age based on both gender and family background. This suggests that during infancy these "display rules" are already taking effect.

Following infancy, the discrimination and production of facial expressions improves as toddlers grow into early childhood. At young ages, children know what the most common facial expressions look like (expressions of happiness or sadness), what they mean, and what kinds of situations typically elicit them. Children develop these skills at very early stages in life and continue to improve facial recognition, discrimination, and imitation between the ages of 3 and 10. One study showed that toddler's spontaneous facial expressions reflect the emotions shown by other toddlers, this is called "decoding". This indicates that facial expressions are affected by the social environment, and are an important aspect in creating relationships with others in our social groups.

In one study, researchers found that facial expressions of sadness may be more beneficial for toddlers than other expressions when eliciting support from the social environment. The ability to regulate expressions of sadness in order to provoke comforting behavior from caregivers can develop as young as the age of 24 months in toddlers. This suggests that there is more emphasis on the presence of others that elicit certain facial expressions in the stages of early childhood and toddlers. The "differential emotions theory suggests that different distress emotions have distinct adaptive social functions" or reactions from the social environment. For example, the distress call of anger from a toddler most likely will elicit a reaction of discipline from the caregiver, while an expression of fear would elicit the reaction of comfort from the caregiver. Social situations induce facial expressions in toddlers and children in early childhood, although there is not enough evidence to indicate that they understand these expressions as emotions. For example, a young child could express sadness when his or her mother is in the room in order to elicit a nurturing reaction from her. Though, at this stage (and adolescence), the child's discrimination of facial expressions develops at a different rate than the production of facial expressions. Therefore, young children are more readily able to discriminate expressions of sadness or anger, but the production of these negative expressions is much more difficult. Many of these studies show toddlers and children in early childhood showing facial expression in a social context, however there is not enough research on their solitary facial expressions.

While there remains a general gap in the literature regarding the production of facial expressions and the processes which underlie this production at middle childhood and adolescence ages, research has been done to assess the overall production capabilities of children ranging in ages 5–13. Results generally indicate that the ability to produce facial emotion increases with age and is slightly correlated with the ability to discriminate the facial expressions of another. Odom and Lemond (1972) created a study to test the potential for "a developmental lag between the perception and production of facial expressions," meaning they were looking to uncover a relationship between previously created schemas and mental representations of different expressions and the ability to transform these representations into facial expression. They operated using the logical assumption that coding perceptions of expressions comes before the discrimination of expressions which then precedes production. Upon assessing two differing age groups, one in kindergarten and the other in fifth grade, they discovered that there is a lag between perception and production of facial expressions, however this lag does not decrease with age. Production and discrimination do not develop at the same rate. Odom and Lemond (1972) have arrived at the far conclusion that production of facial expressions will never be at the same level of discrimination of facial expressions, which supports the findings of another study by Izard (1971) who found that even adults have difficulty producing requested expressions. Despite this, the increased accurate productions of the older kids was found to be due to their discrimination abilities yet the older children still made many errors leading researchers to believe that full discrimination abilities are not at full potential at the middle childhood and adolescence stage of development.

Further, Ekman, Roper and Hager (1980) researched the different means of producing facial expressions which could be influenced by age. They found studies completed by Charlesworth and Kreutzer (1973) and Ekman and Oster (1979) who classified two methods of facial expression. They categorized deliberate action as an imitation of an observed expression or making a face which relates to a memory. Generating emotion is a more complex process with an individual focuses on an experience and attempts to relive that experience in order to create an emotional expression. They suggested age as an impact on the ability to utilize these processes considering the developmental requirements might not be met in order to use one or the other of the aforementioned skills. The study completed by Ekman, Roper and Hager (1980) consisted of three groups of children, the first group having a mean age of 5 years, the second 9 years and the third 13 years. Their results include a significantly larger increase in ability to produce facial movements between the ages of 5 and 9 rather than between the ages 9 and 13.

Additionally, both Ekman, Roper and Hager (1980) and Odom and Lemond (1972) found the expressions for fear, sadness and anger to be the most difficult to produce. Odom and Lemond (1972) give a potential explanation for this using a suggestion made by Izard (1971) that "expression production may be inhibited by socialization training". The significance of this is that some expressions, such as anger or sadness, are socially undesirable. Therefore, socializing agents may discourage such expressions leading to a smaller chance that older children will produce such expressions spontaneously.


</doc>
<doc id="41068164" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068164" title="Csaba László">
Csaba László

Csaba László may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41068166" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068166" title="Cuproxena chelograpta">
Cuproxena chelograpta

Cuproxena chelograpta is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in French Guiana.


</doc>
<doc id="41068170" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41068170" title="Ijime, Dame, Zettai">
Ijime, Dame, Zettai

The single was first announced after the concert at Shibuya O-East on October 6, 2012. An early version of the song can be heard in a video uploaded to the band's official YouTube channel entitled "Babymetal - My First Heavy Metal in Tokyo 2012", which also features part of a live performance of "Iine!". On November 8, 2012, an official trailer for the single and accompanying music was uploaded to the band's official YouTube channel. The trailers, along with a live performance at Sonisphere Festival, subtitled the song as "No More Bullying" and "No More, Bullying, Forever", respectively. An interview with the producers of the band was published in the December issue of "Marquee" to promote the single's release in January.

The single was released in four versions: a standard edition and three physical limited editions, "I", "D", and "Z". The DVDs included in the limited editions contain either footage of the music video for "Ijime, Dame, Zettai", or of a live performance by Babymetal. The single also had a promotional release to customers who purchased tickets to live performances of .

Unlike previous singles released under Juonbu Records, no songs from the single appeared on a Sakura Gakuin album, due to "Headbangeeeeerrrrr!!!!!" having been already released the same school year.

"Ijime, Dame, Zettai" has a melodic speed metal sound, with lyrics pushing for the eradication of bullying; the song itself has been labeled as a "world reformation" metal song. The serious vocals of Suzuka Nakamoto, coupled with the more comical vocals of Yui Mizuno and Moa Kikuchi give the title track a more distinctive sound. The song is performed in the key of C♯ minor; the key shifts to F minor and G♯ minor in the bridge, finishing in E minor. According to Blabbermouth.net, the song "quickly created a buzz due to its mix of melodic speed metal, sensational lyrics around the theme of "Ijime" and the band's performance, which incorporates the "Wall of Death.""

According to the band's website, the "Nemesis" version of the song, which is found on limited editions of the single, features guitars recorded by former Arch Enemy guitarist Christopher Amott.

Written by the same contributors as the band's previous single "Headbangeeeeerrrrr!!!!!", "Catch Me If You Can" contains elements of "digi-rock" (digital rock) and industrial metal, as well as a namahage-themed "death growl interlude", while the lyrics consist of a more comical theme of playing hide and seek. The song begins with footsteps; Mizuno admittedly expressed her fear of the ominous sounds, preferring to skip them when recording. The verse includes the three members speaking, although Nakamoto's lines were ultimately scrapped from the final track.

With arrangement by Yuyoyuppe, "Babymetal Death" begins with a symphonic intro, building up to a death metal number as voices shout out the phrase, letter by letter "Babymetal Death!!". The pun found in the name derives from the Japanese devoicing of the "/u/" sound, which is exploited in the word "death" (desu). As a result, the phrase can be read as "We are Babymetal" ("Babymetal desu"), which the band members used in the early years. Originally, the song in its original form released as a special feature from the "Headbangeeeeerrrrr!!!!!" single, was originally one second long, as a homage to the Napalm Death song "You Suffer", and was used as a final song to close performances for a while.

Kazumi Nanba of "Rolling Stone Japan" reviewed the title track, commenting that with accordance to the "eradication of bullying" in the title, the song is very straightforward and filled with a cute interjections, mentioning a balance between the seriousness and humor in the metal accompaniment, though it is excessively exquisite.

The single debuted at number six on the Oricon Weekly Singles Chart on the week of January 21, 2013, selling 19,000 copies in its first week of release. The song also managed to peak at number five on the Oricon Daily Singles Chart. The song also managed to top the Tower Records Singles Chart.

The music video for "Ijime, Dame, Zettai" was teased on November 8, 2012; it was uploaded in its entirety to the official YouTube channel on November 27, 2012.

The concept of the video originated from the song title, depicting a world where metal music is persecuted, and followers of the genre are hunted down. To combat this, the three members are summoned to revitalize the spirit of metal, forming the concept known as the "Metal Resistance". The costumes worn in the video carry tones of red and black, as well as medieval armor styles in the image of Joan of Arc. During the bridge of the song, Mizuno and Kikuchi take the challenge of engaging in a "metal guitar battle" using guitars that were warped and damaged in earlier scenes.

A live performance of the song at the Sonisphere Festival in 2014 was uploaded to the channel on August 26, 2015.

The song was premiered at the Sakura Gakuin concert Sakura Gakuin 2011 Nendo: New Departure at the Shibuya Duo Music Exchange on July 24, 2011. A month later, the song was performed at the annual Tokyo Idol Festival.

On November 21, 2012, the band performed the song on the Nippon Broadcasting System program "MC Plus". In addition to collaborating with Tower Records for the 26th rendition of the event "No Music, No Idol?", the band performed at several events, including the new year concert "One Song! Explosive Live!" at HMV Club Quattro in Shibuya on January 7, 2013, the "Anime Festival Asia 2012" Show Screening at Tower Records in Shibuya on January 12, 2013, and the ""Ijime, Dame, Zettai" in Osaka" event on January 14, 2013.

On stage, the song begins with Mizuno and Kikuchi running across the stage from opposite ends, cueing the audience to mosh via the Wall of Death, which is different from the traditional manner. During the chorus, the three members jump and cross their arms into an "X", while shouting "Dame!" ("No!") with their hands as kitsune signs. During the bridge of "Ijime, Dame, Zettai", Mizuno and Kikuchi choreograph a fight while Nakamoto and the crowd cheer on them with the sense of unity. Overall, the live performances has inspiration from those of the band X Japan.

"Babymetal Death" is often used as an opening track, mainly to excite the audience. The choreography consists of a conglomerate of dance moves from other songs in the band's repertoire. During the concert , the three members wore white robes for the encore, performing the song as well as and "Ijime, Dame, Zettai". A curtain was raised to obscure the stage beforehand, with lights from backstage projecting shadows of the members onto the sheet until the band resumed performance.

Standard edition
"I", "D", and "Z" limited edition

World Reformation promotional edition
Credits adapted from "Ijime, Dame, Zettai" standard and limited "I" single liner notes.

Recording and management

Personnel



</doc>
