<doc id="41069841" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069841" title="Candidatus Legionella jeonii">
Candidatus Legionella jeonii

"Candidatus" Legionella jeonii is a "candidatus" bacterium from the genus "Legionella". Previously known as X-bacterium"', "Candidatus" Legionella jeonii grows symbiotically in "Amoeba proteus". This endosymbiotic relationship was first noticed by Kwang Jeon in 1966.

A more recent reference dropped "Candidatus" from its name.


</doc>
<doc id="41069842" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069842" title="Museum of John Paul II and Primate Wyszyński">
Museum of John Paul II and Primate Wyszyński

The Museum of John Paul II and Primate Wyszyński () is a Roman Catholic cultural and educational institution affiliated with the Archdiocese of Warsaw, honoring two prominent Polish Catholic leaders: Saint John Paul II, the first Polish Pope, and Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński, the Archbishop of Warsaw and Gniezno and Primate of Poland. It was established by a decree of 18 May 2010 issued by Archbishop Kazimierz Nycz.

The museum is located at the Temple of Divine Providence, which constitutes its integral part. The museum’s exhibition space, which was under construction , is housed above ground in the area surrounding the dome of the Church.

The Museum of John Paul II and Primate Wyszyński recognizes their contribution to Polish culture and preserves the memory of their resistance against the Nazi and communist totalitarian systems, which in the 20th century had exterminated many Polish citizens and attempted to overrun Poland's cultural identity. The museum was also commissioned to commemorate the role of the Catholic Church in Polish culture and society in the 20th century.

The Narrative Museum will be a time vehicle. The use of multimedia, decorations and sound effects is intended to take the visitor through a course of events and invite them to co-participate in the men's history.

The main exhibition covers the period from 1901, the year Stefan Wyszyński was born, to 2005, the year John Paul II died.

The main exhibition was designed by the Kłaput Project (Barbara and Jarosław Kłaputowie).

The main exhibition will consist of ten zones to highlight specific historical events. Four events of the twentieth century symbolize moments of special unity between the Polish nation and the Catholic Church: the Millennium of the Baptism of Poland in 1966; the first papal Mass conducted at Victory Square in Warsaw in June 1979; the Solidarity (Polish trade union) of 1980; and the Great Jubilee of the year 2000.

The museum collections, audiovisual materials and other archival works will be used in the completed exhibition.


The museum offers educational projects for all-aged students both onsite and in schools. The workshops revolve around John Paul II's travels, his evangelizing message and Primate Wyszyński's attitudes about communism.

Special activities will occur on the anniversaries of the papal visits to Poland with conferences and temporary exhibitions. Conference proceedings are published every year.

Since 2012, on the anniversary of Wyszyński’s death, the museum has arranged sightseeing tours of the Residence of the Archbishops of Warsaw.



</doc>
<doc id="41069848" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069848" title="Dolores Veintimilla">
Dolores Veintimilla

Dolores Veintimilla de Galindo (1829 in Quito – May 23, 1857 in Cuenca) was an Ecuadorian poet.

Her most well-known poem is "Quejas" (Complaints).

Veintemilla left few works, which were published posthumously in a collection by Celiano Monge in Quito.

Her parents were José Veintimilla and Jerónima Carrión y Antepara, who were from Loja, Ecuador.

On February 16, 1847, at the age of 18, she married Dr. Sixto Antonio Galindo y Oroña from Colombia. They had a son named Santiago, whose godmother was Rosa Ascázubi, the first lady of Ecuador (married to President Gabriel Garcia Moreno). Veintimilla, her husband, and son moved to Guayaquil where they were accepted by high society with open arms.

She committed suicide on May 23, 1857 in Cuenca.

Her notable prose includes “Fantasía” (Fantasy) and “Recuerdos” (Recollections), in which she dialogues with the past and blames time for giving an early death to her dreams. She best expressed her pain in her poetry, which includes “Aspiración” (Aspiration), “Desencanto” (Disenchantment), “Anhelo” (Yearning), “Sufrimiento” (Suffering), “La noche y mi dolor” (The Night and My Pain), “Quejas” (Complaints), “A mis enemigos” (To My Enemies), “A un Reloj” (To a Clock) and “A mi madre” (To My Mother). Her literary style is characterized by rhythmic and musical verse, and she hardly made use of metaphors or imagery in her poetry.


</doc>
<doc id="41069854" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069854" title="FAIR Girls">
FAIR Girls

FAIR Girls (formerly FAIR Fund) is an anti-human-trafficking organization, founded in 2003 and headquartered in Washington, D.C.. The FAIR acronym stands for Free, Aware, Inspired, Restored. They currently operate in Bosnia, Montenegro, Serbia, Russia, Uganda, and the United States. NASCAR driver Stanton Barrett is an executive board member and has prominently advertised for FAIR Girls with his cars.


</doc>
<doc id="41069859" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069859" title="The Arbitrator (Israeli TV series)">
The Arbitrator (Israeli TV series)

The Arbitrator (2007) (, "Ha-Borer") is an Israeli crime drama series. It tells the story of Nadav Feldman, a social worker who discovers that he was adopted and his real father is the head of a crime family.



</doc>
<doc id="41069874" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069874" title="Ordu (disambiguation)">
Ordu (disambiguation)

Ordu may refer to:




</doc>
<doc id="41069876" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069876" title="Sydbanen">
Sydbanen

Sydbanen is a government-owned railway in Denmark. Formally it connects Ringsted with Nykøbing Falster, from which it branches to Gedser and Rødbyhavn. Ringsted however is not the terminal station, and so the line is often said to continue to Copenhagen.

The line is being upgraded to ERTMS from Ringsted to Nykøbing Falster. Furthermore, 55 km of new tracks are being laid, to smooth out curves, allowing for 200 km/h when done. These works are expected to finish in 2021.

Afterwards, the line will be electrified. This is slated for completion in 2024.


</doc>
<doc id="41069889" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069889" title="Upper Hammonds Plains, Nova Scotia">
Upper Hammonds Plains, Nova Scotia

Upper Hammonds Plains (2011 population: 1,840) is a Canadian suburban community located in Nova Scotia's Halifax Regional Municipality.

The community is situated along Pockwock Road and is considered one of the most historic communities for Black Nova Scotians. There were 330 residents who identified themselves as having black ancestry in the 2006 census. The community is named after the Governor of Nova Scotia Sir Andrew Hamond, 1st Baronet.

Its border is defined by the Government of Nova Scotia and it is adjacent to Hammonds Plains in the east and south, Upper Tantallon in the south, Head of St. Margarets Bay and Mount Uniacke in the west, and Mount Uniacke and Upper Sackville in the north.

Upper Hammonds Plains was originally established in 1815 as a settlement area for Black Refugees from the War of 1812 when a group of 500 refugees moved to the area immediately north of the then 34-year-old logging and farming community Hammonds Plains.

"As with most Blacks forced to live on the outskirts of more thriving areas, they were faced with great hardships. In 1821, 95 of these Black settlers left for Trinidad. Most, however stayed under horrible living conditions and numerous obstacles, rising above their circumstances to carve out an honest living for themselves."

"Land and water expropriation has been a major issue in the community since municipal and provincial governments began looking to the Upper Hammonds Plains area for land around 1974. This resulted in the expropriation of Pockwock Lake to supply water for the city of Halifax, the town of Bedford, and Halifax County. The expropriated land would house the Halifax regional water commission’s water treatment plant. The community was offered $100,000 for the land – much less than what it was actually worth. Moreover, although the water main lines passed through the community’s backyards, there was no offer of water service made to the community. In 1987 Rev. Willard Clayton raised the issue of the need for water service and compensation, citing that the community lost use of its sustainable resource of fishing, as well as recreational swimming and Sunday morning baptisms, among other things. Hammonds Plains is now connected the city’s water system."

"Rev. John Burton (or 'Father Burton') was the first to provide pastoral services to the community. He established the Hammonds Plains Second Baptist Church in 1822. In 1832, the legendary Rev. Richard Preston (founder of the African United Baptist Association) established the Hammonds Plains Baptist Church. In 1839, the two churches joined - the unified church was referred to as Emmanuel Baptist Church." The current building housing Emmanuel Baptist Church was built in 1845 and has served the community continuously since that time, having undergone a significant expansion in 2005.

The Pockwock Lake reservoir is the primary water supply for Halifax. A water treatment plant and pipeline in the community are operated by Halifax Water, a department of the Halifax Regional Municipality.

Madeline Symonds School is named after Upper Hammonds Plains resident Madeline Symonds, the first Black teacher to graduate from the Provincial Normal School in Truro.

Upper Hammonds Plains boasts the first all Black volunteer fire department in Canada.

Upper Hammonds Plains is defined by Pockwock Lake which is the primary reservoir for Halifax.

Schools which service residents of Upper Hammonds Plains include;




</doc>
<doc id="41069916" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069916" title="Grace Gates">
Grace Gates

The Grace Gates, officially the W. G. Grace Memorial Gates, are two pairs of gates on St John's Wood Road at Lord's Cricket Ground in London, England. They were erected in 1923 and the gates with their flanking walls and piers became a Grade II listed building in 1996.

The Grace Gates were designed by architect Sir Herbert Baker as a tribute to English cricketer W. G. Grace, who had died in 1915. They replaced an earlier, less decorative, entrance to the ground. Baker also designed the old Lord's Grandstand, which was demolished in 1996.

The gates are made of cast iron and bear motifs of a cricket ball and the sun's rays, and the initials of the Marylebone Cricket Club. They are set within the south exterior wall of Lord's on St John's Wood Road, within a curved recess (or exedra) of Portland stone, which also contains a door to either side for pedestrian access. The two pairs of gates are separated from each other by a pillar made of Portland stone, topped by a stone carving of three stumps and urn, with a further pillar to either side, also topped by a stone urn. On the centre pillar is a carved wreath with the initials , and the engraved inscription .

The inscription was a matter of some debate, with various suggestions made in English, Latin and Greek. Sir Stanley Jackson suggested including "The Great Cricketer" in the design.

The Grace Gates were officially opened by Sir Stanley Jackson at a ceremony in 1923. They are located close to the west end of the Tavern Stand, and are the main entrance to Lord's for MCC members, who often queue outside the gates hours before Lord's opens on the day of a Test match to get a good seat in the Lord's Pavilion. 

The "Toffs and Toughs" photograph, of two boys in Harrow School uniform and three others in the plain clothes of pre-war working class youths, was taken outside the Grace Gates in July 1937. A protest was held outside the Grace Gates in 1970, opposing the 1969–70 South Africa rugby union tour of Britain and Ireland because of South Africa's apartheid policies. The Grace Gates were listed in 1996.

In 2006, there was discussion in the MCC about possibly removing the Grace Gates to another part of Lord's. This was discussed after consideration of the MCC's planned redevelopment of Lord's with the Grosvenor Group and because the gates were being constantly damaged by supply lorries turning in the vicinity of the gates. However the MCC members voted against moving the gates. In 2013, as part of a revised redevelopment of Lord's, it was announced that a new entrance would be built into Lord's to supersede the Grace Gates as the entrance for MCC members. The gates themselves would be locked for three years while the pavilion end is redeveloped.


</doc>
<doc id="41069917" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069917" title="Ecnomiomorpha aurosa">
Ecnomiomorpha aurosa

Ecnomiomorpha aurosa is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in the Federal District of Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069927" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069927" title="Ecnomiomorpha aurozodion">
Ecnomiomorpha aurozodion

Ecnomiomorpha aurozodion is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Pará, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069929" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069929" title="Donald James Reece">
Donald James Reece

Donald James Reece (born 13 April 1934 in Kingston, Jamaica) is an Emeritus Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Kingston in Jamaica.

Donald James Reece received on 3 January 1971 his priestly ordination and Pope John Paul II appointed him on 17 July 1981 bishop to the Roman Catholic Diocese of Saint John's–Basseterre. His consecration was given by Samuel Emmanuel Carter, SJ, Archbishop of Kingston, Kelvin Edward Felix, Archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Castries and Joseph Oliver Bowers, SVD, former bishop of the Diocese of Saint John's-Basseterre on 8 October of the same year.

On 12 October 2007 he was appointed by Pope Benedict XVI Coadjutor Archbishop of Kingston in Jamaica. After the retirement of Lawrence Aloysius Burke, SJ, he followed him on 12 April 2008 by the Office of the Archbishop of Kingston in Jamaica.

On 15 April 2011 Benedict XVI accepted his resignation as Archbishop of Kingston.

In 2012, he was honored for his contributions to education and religion with the Order of Jamaica, the fourth highest medal of Jamaica.



</doc>
<doc id="41069934" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069934" title="Ecnomiomorpha belemia">
Ecnomiomorpha belemia

Ecnomiomorpha belemia is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Pará, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069939" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069939" title="Ecnomiomorpha chrestodes">
Ecnomiomorpha chrestodes

Ecnomiomorpha chrestodes is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Pará, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069946" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069946" title="Ecnomiomorpha parae">
Ecnomiomorpha parae

Ecnomiomorpha parae is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Pará, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069955" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069955" title="Ecnomiomorpha rondoniae">
Ecnomiomorpha rondoniae

Ecnomiomorpha rondoniae is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Rondônia, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069958" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069958" title="FK Saliutas Vilnius">
FK Saliutas Vilnius

Saliutas Vilnius was a Lithuanian football club from Vilnius.

Club was founded in 1945 as military officers team. In 1951 it was renamed "Saliutas", but in 1952 it became "Karininkų namai" again. In that year it won Lithuanian SSR Top League and Lithuanian Cup (Tiesa Cup), also it played in Soviet Cup where it beat Burevestnik Kisinev (0:0 and 1:0), Dinamo Frunze (walkover), and in eight-final lost to FC Dynamo Moscow (1:4). In 1959 many former Spartakas Vilnius players played in Saliutas, at the time known as "Raudonoji Žvaigždė". In 1962 it was renamed to Saliutas. The club left Lithuanian SSR championship in the middle of 1968 season in favour of Pažanga Vilnius who replaced Saliutas.





</doc>
<doc id="41069965" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069965" title="Ecnomiomorpha tubulifera">
Ecnomiomorpha tubulifera

Ecnomiomorpha tubulifera is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Minas Gerais, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069972" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069972" title="Ecnomiomorpha novaelimae">
Ecnomiomorpha novaelimae

Ecnomiomorpha novaelimae is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Minas Gerais, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41069976" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41069976" title="Ecnomiomorpha caracana">
Ecnomiomorpha caracana

Ecnomiomorpha caracana is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Minas Gerais, Brazil.


</doc>
<doc id="41070003" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070003" title="Great Flood of 1913">
Great Flood of 1913

The Great Flood of 1913 occurred between March 23 and March 26, after major rivers in the central and eastern United States flooded from runoff and several days of heavy rain. Related deaths and damage in the United States were widespread and extensive. While the exact number is not certain, flood-related deaths in Ohio, Indiana, and eleven other states are estimated at approximately 650. The official death toll range for Ohio falls between 422 and 470. Flood-related death estimates in Indiana range from 100 to 200. More than a quarter million people were left homeless. The death toll from the flood of 1913 places it second to the Johnstown Flood of 1889 as one of the deadliest floods in the United States. The flood remains Ohio's largest weather disaster. In the Midwest damage estimates exceeded a third of a billion dollars. Damage from the Great Dayton Flood at Dayton, Ohio, exceeded $73 million. Indiana’s damages were estimated at $25 million (in 1913 dollars). Further south, along the Mississippi River, damages exceeded $200 million. Devastation from the flood of 1913 and later floods along the Mississippi River eventually changed the country's management of its waterways and increased federal support for comprehensive flood prevention and funding for flood control projects. The Ohio Conservancy Act, which was signed by the governor of Ohio in 1914, became a model for other states to follow. The act allowed for the establishment of conservancy districts with the authority to implement flood control projects.

The storm system that produced the flood in late March 1913 began with a typical winter storm pattern, but developed characteristics that promoted heavy precipitation. Strong Canadian winds stalled a high-pressure system off Bermuda and delayed the normal easterly flow of a low-pressure system. In the meantime, moist air from the Gulf of Mexico moved into the Midwest through the Mississippi River valley as a second Canadian high-pressure system arrived from the west, creating a low-pressure trough that stretched from southern Illinois, across central Indiana, and into northern Ohio. At least two low-pressure systems moving along the trough caused heavy rain over the four-day period between March 23 and March 26. As the storm gained strength on Sunday, March 23, high winds, hail, sleet, and tornadoes arrived in the Great Plains, the South, and the Midwest. Major tornadoes hit Omaha, Nebraska; Lone Peach, Arkansas; and Terre Haute, Indiana. On Monday and Tuesday, March 24 and 25, of rain fell in Ohio, Indiana, and southern Illinois. Major rivers in Indiana and Ohio experienced heavy runoff. Downstream, where the Ohio River enters the Mississippi River, the water level broke record highs to that time as the water flowed south to the Gulf of Mexico. By Tuesday, March 25, the Ohio River and its tributaries flooded cities such as Indianapolis, Indiana, and Cincinnati, Youngstown, and Columbus, Ohio. Dayton, Ohio, was particularly hard-hit. On Wednesday, March 26, the storm moved east into Pennsylvania and New York, while heavy rain continued in the Ohio River valley. The heaviest rainfall, or more, covered an area from southern Illinois into northwestern Pennsylvania. As the storm continued eastward, flooding began in New York, Massachusetts, Vermont, and Virginia. The Potomac River overflowed its banks in Maryland.

State and local communities handled much of their own disaster response and relief in 1913. The American Red Cross, a small organization at that time, focused its efforts in more than one hundred of Ohio's hardest-hit communities, including Dayton, and served six of Indiana’s hardest-hit counties. Ohio governor James M. Cox called on the state legislature to appropriate $250,000 (about $11 million in today's dollars) for emergency aid. Indiana governor Samuel M. Ralston appealed to Indiana cities and other states for relief assistance. Many communities cared for their own flood victims with Red Cross assistance, charitable donations, and contributions from local businesses, industries, and service organizations.

The storms that created the floods in 1913 continued over several days and produced record-breaking rain. It remains Ohio's "largest weather disaster" and triggered Indiana's worst flood on record. Storm-related flooding affected more than a dozen states: Alabama, Arkansas, Connecticut, Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, North Carolina, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Vermont, and Virginia. The same weather system caused major tornadoes in the Great Plains, the South, and the Midwest, most notably in Omaha, Nebraska; Lone Peach, Arkansas; and Terre Haute, Indiana.

Between March 23 and 25 heavy rains and rising waters from the Great Miami River burst levees on Dayton's south side and flooded of the city. Dayton's downtown streets experienced water deep. On March 26, as floodwaters reached their crest, Dayton's business district suffered more damage after an early morning fire and gas explosion. An estimated 123 people were killed in Dayton. Downstream in nearby Hamilton, Ohio, about 100 people died after water deep flowed into its residential neighborhoods.

Approximately of rain fell on Indianapolis over the period of March 23 through March 26, inundating nearly a area and causing five known deaths. On March 26 floodwaters estimated at above flood stage destroyed Indianapolis's Washington Street bridge, the main connection over the White River. High water forced 4,000 to flee their homes on the city's near west side when an earthen levee failed and a wall of water flooded an area nearly a wide around Kentucky Avenue and Morris Street. The city's transportation and water supply were disrupted for nearly four days in flooded areas and as many as 7,000 Indianapolis families lost their homes.

The weather pattern that triggered heavy rains over the Midwest began after strong Canadian winds stalled a high-pressure system off Bermuda and delayed the normal easterly flow of a low-pressure system. As moist air from the Gulf of Mexico moved into the Midwest through the Mississippi River valley, a second Canadian high-pressure system arrived from the west and squeezed the low into a trough that stretched from southern Illinois, across central Indiana, and into northern Ohio. At least two low-pressure systems moving in quick succession along the trough dumped one rainstorm after another. The weather pattern changed little over the four-day period of March 23 through March 26 and caused heavy rain over the Ohio River valley. The heaviest rainfall, or more, covered an area from southern Illinois into northwestern Pennsylvania. Louisville, Kentucky, experienced the storm’s heaviest recorded rainfall rate of in twenty-eight minutes on March 25.

Other factors contributing to the extensive flooding were the storm's size, its duration, and existing ground conditions. Rivers and streams affected by the flood were at near normal or below flood stage levels two days prior to the major flooding in Indiana and Ohio. Some experts argue that the ground may have become quickly saturated, resulting in runoff and flash flooding. Others have suggested that frozen ground in tributary watersheds may have contributed to the flooding along the rivers. Up to of snow followed the heavy rain in northern Indiana. In some areas thawed ground and a lack of snowpack may have minimized the destruction from runoff and flooding.

Rivers rose several feet above previous high-water marks in Ohio and Indiana after heavy rains at the headwaters of the region’s rivers moved downstream. The area's rivers experienced heavy runoff, especially along the Muskingum, Scioto, Great Miami, and Wabash rivers. The Scioto River basin in central Ohio recorded a flood level of , which remains a record of nearly higher than its other recorded floods. The Great Miami River and its tributaries, including the Whitewater River in Indiana, rose at least higher than previous flood levels in many locations. Downstream from Indiana and Ohio, where the Ohio River enters the Mississippi River at Cairo, Illinois, the water level reached and broke record highs to that time. High waters continued to flow south to the Gulf of Mexico, causing some levees to fail in Arkansas, Kentucky, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Missouri. Water from flood-crested rivers flowing into the Mississippi River in April set new height records downriver and caused cities such as Memphis, Tennessee; Natchez, Mississippi; New Orleans, Louisiana; and elsewhere along the Mississippi to prepare for flooding.

The storm system that produced the flood in late March began with a typical winter storm pattern, but soon developed special characteristics that promoted heavy precipitation.

Friday, March 21
Saturday, March 22
Sunday, March 23
Monday, March 24
Tuesday, March 25
Wednesday, March 26
Thursday, March 27
Friday, March 28

In the immediate aftermath of the floods businesses and factories shut down, schools closed, government services were disrupted, and train travel was delayed or stopped throughout the Midwest. Newspapers in many communities were not published during the storm. Theaters around the country were showing pictures of the flood devastation in Dayton and other Ohio cities and tornado damage in Omaha, Nebraska, within weeks after the disaster.

In 1913, years before the federal government provided significant disaster relief, state and local communities handled their own disaster response and relief. Cleanup efforts were made even more difficult with increased fire and health risks, flood-damaged communications systems, disrupted transportation networks, debris-littered streets, and flooded utility systems.

The American Red Cross was still a small organization in March 1913, with a few full-time employees at its headquarters in Washington, D.C. and about sixty volunteer chapters in the United States, when President Woodrow Wilson named it "the official disaster-relief agency for the federal government". Flood reports in the country's newspapers carried an appeal from the president to help victims with contributions to the Red Cross. Wilson also sent telegrams to the governors of Ohio and Indiana asking how the federal government might help. Indiana governor Samuel M. Ralston did not receive President Wilson's telegram offering federal support due to flood-damaged communications. Ohio governor James M. Cox replied to the president with a request for tents, rations, supplies, and physicians and sent a telegram to the Red Cross requesting its assistance in Dayton and surrounding communities. Red Cross agents and nurses focused their efforts in 112 of Ohio's hardest-hit communities, which included Dayton, primarily along Ohio's major rivers. The Red Cross had less of a presence in Indiana, where it established a temporary headquarters in Indianapolis and served the six hardest-hit Indiana counties. Red Cross disaster relief in other regions of the United States, with the exception of Omaha, Nebraska, and Lower Peach Tree, Alabama, was limited or nonexistent.

Governor Cox called on the Ohio legislature to appropriate $250,000 (about $11 million in today's dollars) for emergency aid and declared a 10-day bank holiday. Cox, who was also the publisher of the "Dayton Daily News", provided the press with daily briefings and appeals for donations. Governor Ralston appealed to Indiana cities and other states for relief assistance and donations of money and supplies. Ralson appointed a trustee to receive relief funds and arrange for distribution of supplies. Approximately one-half of Indiana's counties cared for their own flood victims. Railroads, most notably "the Big Four, the Pennsylvania Lines, and the Vandalia," put their equipment at the Indiana governor's disposal and had work crews rebuild the state's rail network.

The Chicago Association of Commerce wired $100,000 to the Red Cross on March 26, becoming one of many organizations that contributed funds for flood relief. Rotary clubs across the United States contributed more than $25,000 (half a million in today's dollars) to a Rotary Relief Fund, which was established for flood relief in Indiana and Ohio. It was the organization's "first cooperative disaster relief effort." In some areas independent local organizations helped with relief efforts. The Rotary Club of Indianapolis, chartered just a few weeks before the flood, and the Rotary Club of Dayton, chartered six months earlier, assisted relief efforts within their communities by helping to provide medical support, transportation, and shelter. Other Rotary clubs in the United States and Canada donated funds, supplies, and medicine. In Colorado stage actress Sarah Bernhardt and fellow actor John Drew, Jr. gave a benefit performance that contributed $5,000 to a $41,000 relief fund already raised by Colorado residents for Indiana and Ohio flood victims.

The exact death toll from the flood and its aftermath may never be known. One estimate of storm-related deaths from March 21 to March 28 is more than 900. Flood deaths in Ohio, Indiana, and eleven other states (Arkansas, Illinois, Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Michigan, Missouri, New York, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Wisconsin) is estimated at approximately 650. This death toll places the flood of 1913 second to the Johnstown flood of 1889, when more than 2,200 people died, as one of the country's deadliest floods.
Official reports of flood deaths are inconsistent. The bodies of some of the victims were never found and not all fatalities were reported to agencies collecting flood statistics. Some disaster-related deaths from injuries or illness were not listed in official counts if they occurred after publication of official reports. An estimate of 467 flood deaths has been quoted for Ohio, with the official death toll range between 422 and 470. Dayton's official death toll was not certain, but Ohio's Bureau of Statistics listed eighty-two people, while one flood historian puts the number at ninety-eight. Others reported Dayton's death toll at nearly 300, but this figure may have included other neighborhoods and cities. Estimated deaths for flood victims in Indiana is 100 to 200. Flooding in the Great Miami River basin caused at least 260 deaths, more than in any other river basin. Approximately seventeen people died in flooding in the Whitewater River basin.

Secondary to the flood itself, there were outbreaks of diphtheria and typhus in several flooded areas, such as the area in north-central Dayton, Ohio. It is likely that roughly 2000 additional hospitalizations were the result of these outbreaks, following the more directly physical damage of the flood. Although information for Indiana is not presently available, estimates are that an additional 1000 people were effected in that state.

Damage from the flood was widespread and extensive. The storm destroyed hundreds of bridges and railroad trestles and 12,000 telegraph and telephone poles. Flooding stopped communications between Chicago and New York for a day and a half, disrupted road and rail transportation, and slowed mail delivery. More than 38,000 homes and other buildings, plus thousands of schools, businesses, utilities, and city streets were damaged or destroyed. More than a quarter million people were left homeless.

In the Midwest alone, damage estimates, which one flood historian suggests were understated, were more than "a third of a billion dollars." The Dayton Citizens' Relief Committee's report documented damage in Dayton in excess of $73 million. Damage in Indiana was estimated at $25 million in 1913 dollars. Cairo, Illinois, where its citizens had advance knowledge of the oncoming high water that arrived the week after the Dayton flood, reported no fatalities, but damage estimates there and in smaller communities such as Shawneetown, Illinois, and Caseyville, Kentucky, was in excess of $5 million. Along the Mississippi River damages exceeded $200 million.

Devastation from the flood of 1913 and later floods along the Mississippi River in 1917, 1927, 1936, and 1937, eventually changed the country’s management of its waterways and increased congressional support beyond emergency flood assistance to include national flood control measures.

Following the flood of 1913, citizens and government officials took a greater interest in comprehensive flood prevention, managing flood-prone areas, and funding for flood control projects that would limit damage and save lives. Congress previously contended that floods were local events and flood control was the responsibility of state and local government. The Flood Control Act of 1917 was the first of several pieces of legislation that eventually led to the creation of the National Flood Insurance Program of 1968, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) in 1979, and the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act of 1988. Federal funding for national flood control projects began slowly in 1917, with Congress authorizing funding for flood control studies in the Mississippi River as part of House Document 308. By 1925 it had been expanded to include other major rivers in the United States.

The Dayton Relief Committee began shortly after the flood of 1913 to raise $2 million to develop a comprehensive flood protection system that would prevent another flood disaster of the same magnitude. The committee hired Arthur Ernest Morgan and his Morgan Engineering Company from Tennessee to design a plan that used levees and dams. On March 17, 1914, the governor of Ohio signed the Ohio Conservancy Act, which allowed for the establishment of conservancy districts with the authority to implement flood control projects. Ohio's Upper Scioto Conservancy District was the first to form in February 1915. The Miami Conservancy District (MCD), which includes Dayton and surrounding communities, was the second, formed in June 1915. The MCD began construction of their flood control system in 1918. The project was completed in 1922 at a cost in excess of $32 million and has kept Dayton from flooding as significantly as it did in 1913. The Ohio Conservancy Act became the model for other states, such as Indiana, New Mexico, and Colorado.





</doc>
<doc id="41070004" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070004" title="Bala, Russia">
Bala, Russia

Bala (; ) is a rural locality (a "selo") and the administrative center of Arylakhsky Rural Okrug of Verkhoyansky District in the Sakha Republic, Russia, located from Batagay, the administrative center of the district. Its population as of the 2010 Census was 543; down from 579 recorded in the 2002 Census.



</doc>
<doc id="41070006" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070006" title="Eriotortrix iresinephora">
Eriotortrix iresinephora

Eriotortrix iresinephora is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Colombia.


</doc>
<doc id="41070009" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070009" title="Eriotortrix isipida">
Eriotortrix isipida

Eriotortrix isipida is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Colombia.


</doc>
<doc id="41070014" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070014" title="Turquoise emperor">
Turquoise emperor

Turquoise emperor may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41070015" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070015" title="Climate Dress">
Climate Dress

The Climate Dress was designed in 2009 by Danish design company Diffus Design in collaboration with the Swiss embroidery company Forster-Rohner, Alexandra Institute and the Danish School of Design.

The Climate Dress is laced with hundreds of light-emitting diodes (LEDs) that responds to the level of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the nearby surroundings and are powered through the conductive embroidery by an Arduino Lily pad microprocessor and a carbon dioxide detector, resulting in patterns that range from slow pulses to rapid flashes depending on the concentration of the CO2. The Climate Dress does not rely on wiring, soldering, or crimping, which is often the case with smart textile products. All functional elements are blended into the embroidery and exposed to the viewer.

The Climate Dress was presented at the Cop 15 Climate Summit in Copenhagen in 2009, at the "Health Environment Climate" exhibition.

In 2011 the Climate Dress won first prize in the Design That Performs contest, hosted by Samsung.


</doc>
<doc id="41070028" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070028" title="Eristparcula brunniuba">
Eristparcula brunniuba

Eristparcula brunniuba is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Loja Province, Ecuador.


</doc>
<doc id="41070031" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070031" title="Eristparcula ochriuba">
Eristparcula ochriuba

Eristparcula ochriuba is a species of moth of the family Tortricidae. It is found in Loja Province, Ecuador.


</doc>
<doc id="41070036" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070036" title="Milan Milinković">
Milan Milinković

Milan Milinković (Serbian Cyrillic: Милан Милинковић; born 4 May 1992) is a Serbian football defender who plays for Radnik Surdulica.

Speedy right-back began in local club Budućnost Arilje, but was observed by Partizan scouts, and continued his football education in black-white jersey. As a youngster he played for Obilić, too. He started his professional career in Javor Ivanjica and after 3 season, he moved to Jagodina.

He played for Serbian youth team (U21) in the regional league game against the national team of Montenegro.



</doc>
<doc id="41070039" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070039" title="Hand Therapy">
Hand Therapy

Hand Therapy is a peer-reviewed academic journal that publishes papers four times a year in the field of Physical medicine and rehabilitation. The journal's Editor-in-Chief is Christina Jerosch-Herold (University of East Anglia, Norwich). It has been in publication since 1991 and is currently published by SAGE Publications in association with the British Association of Hand Therapists and the European Federation of Societies for Hand Therapy.

"Hand Therapy", published quarterly, publishes review articles, research articles, audits and case reports on the theory and practice of physiotherapy and occupational therapy for the hand. It also includes related fields of interest to hand therapists and surgeons, occupational therapists, physiotherapists and other hand specialists.

"Hand Therapy" is abstracted and indexed in the following databases:


</doc>
<doc id="41070043" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070043" title="Navielektro">
Navielektro

Navielektro /nɑvielektro/ is a privately owned Finnish company specialized in development and maintenance of situational awareness, surveillance and communication systems for both civilian and military purposes. Navielektro develops, manufactures and provides maintenance for a range of various radar and related sensors and communication equipment.

Navielektro was founded by Asser Koivisto in 1987. The company originally began as a three person endeavor, selling and installing navigation systems onboard vessels. The operations eventually expanded to include installations of ship bridges. In the mid 1990s, the company branched out to surveillance sensors and software, as the focus shifted from providing on-board navigational systems to developing sensors, maritime surveillance systems and vessel traffic management systems for control centers. The first radar manufactured by Navielektro was developed in 1994, and the company has continued to produce their own line of antennas and sensors ever since.

In 1996, Navielektro signed a contract with the Finnish Maritime Administration (now the Finnish Transport Agency) to help establish a VTS system for the Archipelago Sea. From this point onwards, the company began to focus mainly on development, maintenance and delivery of situational awareness systems. By the early 2000s, the entire coast of Finland was covered by VTS delivered by Navielektro.

Navielektro co-operated with the main Swedish actors in the field of AIS system technology, resulting in the development of the first system in the world fusing AIS and radar tracks. Collaboration with the Finnish Maritime Administration, the Southwestern Maritime District and the Finnish Defense Forces made it possible to realize this innovation in Finland, making the Finnish VTS system the first in the world to incorporate AIS, providing interaction between the VTS system and vessels. Navielektro’s operations further expanded to include general situational awareness services and related software in the year 2000.

In May 2004, the Swedish Saab TransponderTech announced the company would be partnering with Navielektro to promote products for the VTS and coastal surveillance systems market. Navielektro and Saab TransponderTech teamed up to offer VTMS and Coastal Surveillance Systems for maritime administrations and port authorities worldwide for several years.

Since the year 2000 and onwards, Navielektro has provideded the Finnish Border Guard and the Finnish Navy with command, control, communications and surveillance platforms.

Navielektro is the leading supplier of VTS, Coastal Surveillance and Situational Awareness Systems for the Coast of Finland. The majority of the radars currently in operation along the Finnish coast have been provided by Navielektro, replacing FIKA-radars from the 70's. All of the Finnish agencies engaging in coastal surveillance (such as the Finnish Transport Agency, the Finnish Border Guard and the Finnish Navy) utilize radars and situational awareness systems manufactured by Navielektro. The VTMS and Coastal Surveillance System that Navielektro designed and delivered for the Finnish trilateral METO agencies is one of the largest and most sophisticated of its kind in the world.

In 2011, Navielektro and Eltel signed a contract with Ghana Maritime Authority to supply and install a Vessel Traffic Management Information System to ensure electronic surveillance and monitoring of the coast of Ghana. Navielektro provided the technology, while Eltel implemented telecommunication and homeland security solutions. The system was inaugurated on April 29, 2014, and integrates several sub-systems like radar control, automatic identification, radio data, CCTV and area control centers.

Navielektro actively participates in the development of situational awareness systems as part of joint operations with ITU, IALA and NATO.

Navielektro has actively participated in the following projects:


Navielektro offers a wide range of different solutions for surveillance and communication for both civilian and military customers. The company provides naval and military tactical information systems as well as systems for maritime surveillance (integrating VTS and AIS information in the RMP), intelligent transport, voice communication and weather information. Navielektro also manufactures radar sensors and transceivers.


</doc>
<doc id="41070092" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070092" title="Bruce Guerin">
Bruce Guerin

Bruce Guerin (January 18, 1919 – June 27, 2012) was an American child actor known for his roles in silent films during the 1920s.

Guerin was born in Los Angeles to a family that worked in showbusiness. His mother was a vaudeville performer while his father worked for Mack Sennett. Bruce started acting at age 3 when he appeared in Raoul Walsh's 1922 film "Kindred of the Dust". This was followed by 12 more movies, including "Brass", "Drifting", "Revelation", "The Parasite" and "The Salvation Hunters".

During these three years, Bruce Guerin achieved media coverage from newspapers such as "The Davenport Democrat and Leader", "Modesto Evening News", "Hamilton Daily News", "Picture Play Magazine" and "Pharos-Tribune".

After his acting career had ended, he became a pianist. During the Second World War, he appeared in shows in Hawaii alongside celebrities such as Bob Hope and Ray Bolger. After the war ended, he continued to perform in various places.

Bruce Guerin retired in 1996 and died 16 years later, on June 27, 2012. He was 93 years old.

Bruce had four children: Paul Guerin, Mark Wilson, Bruce James Guerin Jr., and Lisa Guerin-Smeltzer. He had three grandchildren: Nick Johnson, Taylor Smeltzer, and Victoria Smeltzer.



</doc>
<doc id="41070211" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070211" title="Brokers of Death arms case">
Brokers of Death arms case

The 'Brokers of Death' arms case (officially "United States v. Samuel Evans et al") was a US trial in the 1980s relating to the attempted shipment of $2.5bn worth of US-made arms to Iran; it was described by the "Los Angeles Times" in 1986 as "the largest arms conspiracy prosecution ever brought by the Justice Department". The case (with indictments in May 1986, following a four-month investigation) was dropped in January 1989 after the prosecution said it could not prove the defendants did not believe their dealings were officially sanctioned. The planned deals were being arranged at the same time as the White House was secretly seeking to arrange arms sales to Iran, in what became known as the Iran-Contra affair; some evidence indicated that defendants were aware of these efforts.

In December 1985, the case began when Iranian banker Cyrus Hashemi approached US Customs with a deal. Hashemi, described by Assistant Treasury Secretary John M. Walker, Jr. as a "major figure in international arms trafficking", had been indicted in July 1984 over arms dealing with Iran, and sought leniency in exchange for cooperation. The US agreed to drop the charges against Hashemi in exchange for his cooperation. Hashemi said he had been approached in late 1985 by Samuel Evans, an advisor to Saudi arms dealer Adnan Khashoggi, leading to US Customs setting up a sting operation. The four-month investigation, costing over $100,000, led to arrests in April 1986 in New York and Bermuda, with the involvement of Special Agent Joseph F. King. Evans was recorded by US Customs saying that he had received assurances of "full and complete cooperation" from Israeli officials, and was expecting to discuss the matter with Israeli Defense Minister Yitzhak Rabin on his next trip. 

In April 1986, 17 suspects were indicted in the case, accused of planning to use false end-user certificates to bypass the US arms embargo against Iran. Three suspects were named as retired Israeli general Avraham Bar-Am, William Northrop, and Samuel Evans. The deal was said to involve over 100 aircraft, as well as tanks and missiles. Tanks were promised by Bar-Am, who said they were Soviet tanks captured from the Syrian Army in 1973. Indictments were issued on 5 May 1986. According to Victor Ostrovsky's "The Other Side of Deception", a contact at Mossad asked Ostrovsky to call Bar-Am on 8 April 1986 and tell him that the deal had been approved. Ostrovsky said he made the call, knowing that Bar-Am was walking into a trap - his contact had told him that Bar-Am's contact had been "turned" by the FBI.

Evans' lawyer later told the court that Evans had first been introduced to Hashemi by Roy Furmark, a close friend of Central Intelligence Agency Director William Casey, in January 1985. Furmark was alleged to have repeatedly assured Evans that according to Casey the US approved of supplying arms to Iran. Northrop sought Casey's telephone logs, claiming to have spoken with Casey on a monthly basis since 1981 and that Casey knew of and approved of the deals. Casey never produced the logs but a postmortem review of Casey's files affirmed these monthly contacts with Northrop. Testifying to Congress, Casey stated Furmark told him in October 1986 about the possible diversion of funds from arms sales to Iran. One of the defendants met with US Ambassador Maxwell M. Rabb in Rome, and was recorded telling Hashemi that he was waiting for Rabb to confirm official approval (Rabb later admitted the meeting but denied discussing the arms deal). An arms dealer with a diplomatic passport, John Delaroque, not indicted, assured Hashemi on 7 February 1986 that the matter had gone as far as the Vice President.

In November 1986 Iran-Contra affair revelations forced the Justice Department to launch a review of the case. After a Supreme Court decision in an unrelated case narrowed mail and wire fraud prosecutions, 46 of the 55 charges were dropped in mid-1988. The case against the 12 defendants was finally dropped in January 1989, with prosecutor Rudy Giuliani conceding that the prosecution was unable to prove that the defendants did not believe the planned deals "were officially sanctioned or that approval of the United States for such sales could be obtained". The planned deals were being arranged at the same time as the White House was secretly seeking to arrange arms sales to Iran (including suspending enforcement of the Arms Export Control Act in January 1986), in what became known as the Iran-Contra affair; some evidence indicated that defendants were aware of these efforts. Some defendants were close associates of Adnan Khashoggi, who became a middle-man in arms sales to Iran which were officially approved and carried out.



</doc>
<doc id="41070259" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070259" title="Francis Coldwells">
Francis Coldwells

Francis Moses Coldwells (1832 - 29 July 1895) was a British businessman and Liberal Party politician.

Born in Stoke Newington, he was educated in the British School there. At one time he occupied the office of harbourmaster at Brading, Isle of Wight before moving to Croydon in the southern suburbs of London where he established a tailoring business. Elected to Croydon Local Board, he was one of the main proponents of the incorporation of Croydon as a borough, and was one of the first members of the town council, elected an alderman, following the granting of a charter in 1883. He was subsequently a justice of the peace for the borough. He was also a member of Croydon School Board. He was also a temperance activist as a leading member of the Band of Hope.

At the 1892 general election he was elected to the House of Commons as Member of Parliament for Lambeth North, with a majority over his Liberal Unionist opponent, Henry Morton Stanley, of 130 votes.

Coldwells was a director of the Liberator Building Society, established by Jabez Balfour, the first Mayor of Croydon. After the collapse of the company Coldwells was pursued through the courts for large sums of money by some of the society's shareholders. He described himself as being "slowly killed with worry", and did not defend his parliamentary seat at the next election in 1895. Shortly before his death it became clear he faced a criminal trial at the High Court.

He was found dead in a summer house in Bournemouth shortly after leaving parliament. At the inquest into his death it was found that he died from heart failure, possibly aggravated by stress.


</doc>
<doc id="41070261" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070261" title="Zalipais bruniense">
Zalipais bruniense

Zalipais bruniense is a species of microscopic sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc in the family Skeneidae.

The height of the shell attains 0.5 mm, its diameter 0.9 mm.
This marine species is endemic to Australia, occurring off South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria and in the Bass Strait.



</doc>
<doc id="41070292" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070292" title="Starling Framework">
Starling Framework

Starling is an open source game framework used to create 2D games that run both on mobile and desktop platforms. It recreates the traditional Flash display list architecture on top of accelerated graphics hardware. Several commercial games have been built with Starling, including Angry Birds Friends and Incredipede.

Starling was initiated in 2011 by Adobe shortly after introducing the Stage3D API in their AIR and Flash run-time systems. Stage3D allows utilizing the GPU inside the Flash Player via a low-level API; Starling should simplify the transition for developers by providing an accompanying high-level API built on top of Stage3D.

The framework has seen rapid adoption over the years, being utilized in many games from both independent and commercial developers. It is now a part of the Adobe Gaming SDK.

Since Starling's introduction, several Open Source libraries were published by 3rd party developers that depend on Starling and extend its functionality.





</doc>
<doc id="41070311" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070311" title="The Minories, Colchester">
The Minories, Colchester

The Minories is a Grade II listed building and gardens situated at the east end of High Street in Colchester, Essex, England, near Hollytrees, Gate House and Colchester Castle. It currently houses The Minories Galleries which are run by Colchester School of Art, part of Colchester Institute.

The house is believed to have been built in the Tudor period. In 1731 it was purchased by the baize manufacturer Isaac Boggis for £420. His son, Thomas Boggis, inherited the house, and employed an architect, probably John Alefounder (1732–1787) to remodel the building, turning parts of it into an elegant Georgian residence. The Boggis family lived in the house for almost 200 years. From 1821 to 1915 the building had several owners and tenants, one of whom was Dr. Becker, a general practitioner (GP) whose son, Harry Becker, lived there for a time while he learned his trade as a landscape painter and went on to become one of East Anglia's best known artists.

In 1915 Geoffrey Crawford Bensusan-Butt and his wife Dr. Ruth Crawford took over the lease, purchasing the property along with a portion of land that included the Gothic Folly, a summer house built in 1830. Crawford later had three exhibitions of his artwork shown at the Minories in 1962, 1964 and 1975. Dr. Ruth Crawford was the sister-in-law of the painter Lucien Pissarro, and was one of the first female GPs in Colchester. She used the front rooms of The Minories as her consulting rooms, and also opened Colchester's first infant nursery there. One of the Bensusan-Butt's three children was the English economist, David Bensusan-Butt.

In 1956 Dr. Ruth, who had survived her husband, sold The Minories along with the garden to the Victor Batte-Lay Trust, named after the art collector who had been a hereditary freeman of the town. The trust was set up by Batte-Lay's window, Margaret, to purchase and endow a building in Colchester as a memorial to her husband. From 1963 to 1974 R. A. Bevan was chair of the Victor Batte-Lay Trust. The Minories was sold on the strict condition that it would continue to be used for artistic purposes.

The Victor Batte-Lay Trust has provided a public cultural and artistic centre for Colchester and North-East Essex. No. 73, the house next door to The Minories, was purchased and added in 1975 with funding from Eastern Arts and the support of local professionals. The Minories, run by the Trust as The Minories Art Gallery, presented work by Edward Bawden, Leon Underwood, Eric Ravilious, Harry Becker, John Bratby, John and Paul Nash, Lucien Pissarro, Cedric Morris, Christopher Wood, Bill Brandt, Maggi Hambling, Jacob Epstein and Mark Wallinger.

By the early 90's the Trust's resources were significantly reduced, and the gallery closed in 1992, leading to a period of uncertainty. It reopened in 1994 when Firstsite took on the lease and continued to pay some of the Trust's obligations.

Upon her death in 1955, Margaret Batte-Lay bequeathed her husband's collection of art objects to "the people of Colchester … in particular those who shall take an interest in the artistic and antiquarian features of that town". The initial collection held works mainly by British artists, including still lives from the 17th century, regency portraiture, 18th century prints and drawings and 19th century oil paintings and samplers. This collection was first displayed on the ground floor of The Minories Gallery in an imitation of the original domestic setting together with new acquisitions which included antique clocks and chandeliers that highlighted Batte-Lay’s discerning taste in art and antiques.

By the end of the decade, the Trustees had acquired new works through purchases, loans and gifts with the intention to expand the Permanent Collection. 
By the 1960s, as the collection grew via purchases and the occasional gift, it also took on a more modern direction in order to attract new and younger audiences. Works acquired during this period varied in style but the strength of the collection lay in its possession of prints by several British modernists most notably, John Nash, Paul Nash and Blair Hughes-Stanton as well as 14 figure drawings by Camille Pissarro.

The acquisition and subsequent sale of Robert Bevan’s The Cab Yard in the 1970s paved the way for the purchase of the adjacent property as a new exhibiting space, which became known as The Girling Room. As a result, the Contemporary Art Society gifted generously to the collection with works such as Margaret Mellis' Lilac Yellow and Ian McKeever's Sand and Sea Series No. 8. The Victor Batte-Lay Trust then developed a policy of acquiring work by 20th century artists preferably with strong regional links.

In the early 1980s, the team at The Minories was the recipient of a sizeable amount of funding from charitable organisations and Friends of The Minories which led to the setting up of an official purchasing policy. The collection expanded again through new purchases, most significantly the team established a sculpture collection. During this period, there was also a Permanent Collection room that exhibited a selection of works on rotation. By the mid-1980s the collection faced a sudden change in funding circumstances. In order to stay afloat, several works were sold off and those acquired by Colchester Borough Council stayed in the local area.

At present, the Victor Batte Lay collection consists of 135 acquisitions by renowned British and international artists. They are not on permanent display but a selection of the Victor Batte-Lay art collection can be viewed in temporary exhibitions at Colchester’s Firstsite and on loan in regional and national institutions.

In early 2008 Firstsite left The Minories and moved into Crouch Street while their new building was developed, and in June 2008 Colchester Institute took on the lease for the Minories. The site is currently home to The Minories Galleries, a contemporary art gallery run by Colchester School of Art which is open to the public and houses the Colchester School of Art's Postgraduate programmes and a café surrounded by a walled garden. The Minories is next door to Firstsite, Colchester’s contemporary art space, in the centre of St Botolph's Quarter.

Since being run by Colchester School of Art and Colchester Institute, The Minories has presented exhibitions by artists and designers including Joseph Robinson, Abram Games, Romek Marber, Noel Myles, Keith Albarn (father of Blur frontman Damon) and Chris Meigh-Andrews.

In October 2015, the cafe and tearoom in the back of the venue was taken over by Wilkin & Sons and is now operated as the Batte-Lay Tearoom, whilst the gallery space remains under previous management.

The Friends of the Minories is an organisation which supports the gallery and assists in its funding. About four or five events occur each year, generally visits to local places of interest. The revenue from these fund-raising events goes into maintaining the garden and its 18th-century Gothic Folly. The garden and Folly are both registered with the Essex Gardens Trust.



</doc>
<doc id="41070329" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070329" title="Phyllis Zouzounis">
Phyllis Zouzounis

Phyllis Zouzounis is an American female winemaker based in Windsor, California known for Zinfandel wine.

She is one of the first pioneering professional female winemakers, having begun her career at Dry Creek Vineyard in Sonoma County in 1980. She started as winemaker who specializes in Zinfandels, and won recognition for wine produced using that grape in California. Her wines have garnered many local and international awards.

By 1987, she produced three distinctive Zins under the Deux Amis label (with co-proprietor and winemaking colleague Jim Pempraze) and five more as winemaker at Mazzocco Vineyards.

"Wine Enthusiast" stated in 1999 that "Phyllis Zouzounis has captured the essence of Zinfandel here", and their 2007 Sonoma County Zinfandel was particularly acclaimed by wine critics. She is also involved in Cabernet Sauvignon and Cabernet Franc production at Raymond Burr Vineyards, Chardonnay at Bedarra Vineyards and Tre Ricci Wines in the Dry Creek Valley, and Viognier and Cabernet at Starlite Vineyards in the Alexander Valley. She has said of winemaking: "My focus is balance. Balance of the vine, balance of the fruit and balance in the wine."


</doc>
<doc id="41070338" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070338" title="Francisco José Nicolás González">
Francisco José Nicolás González

Francisco José Nicolás González (born 6 November 1988), commonly known as Nico, is a Spanish footballer who plays for Orihuela CF as a winger.

Born in Molina de Segura, Murcia, Nico graduated from Villarreal CF's youth system, but made his senior debuts with Cádiz CF B in the 2007–08 season, in Tercera División. One year later he joined Albacete Balompié, initially being assigned to the reserves in the same division; he played his first game as a professional on 26 October 2008, coming on as a late substitute in a 1–1 home draw against Celta de Vigo for the Segunda División championship.

In 2009, Nico first arrived in Segunda División B, signing with Real Murcia Imperial. He continued competing in that level in the following years, with CD Guadalajara and CD Tenerife, contributing with four goals in 1,841 minutes of action to help the former club promote in 2011.

After Tenerife manager Antonio Calderón was sacked in January 2012, Nico was loaned to former side Guadalajara. On 3 March he scored his first professional goal, the last in a 2–0 win at FC Cartagena.

In June, Nico returned to Tenerife and division three and, despite being shown the door, he still managed to appear in 15 matches and net once during the season for the Canary Islands team, albeit in only one start. On 29 July 2013, his contract with the "Blanquiazules" was mutually terminated and he signed with Salamanca AC on 9 August. However, due to the club's juridical issues, he moved to Ontinyent CF instead.

On 8 July 2014, after suffering relegation with the Valencians, Nico moved to La Hoya Lorca CF also in the third division. Roughly a year later, he joined fellow league team Arandina CF.



</doc>
<doc id="41070393" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070393" title="Zalipais inscripta">
Zalipais inscripta

Zalipais inscripta is a species of minute sea snail, a marine gastropod mollusc in the family Skeneidae.

The height of the shell attains 1.2 mm, its diameter 2.2 mm. The minute, very fragile shell has a discoidal shape. It is diaphanous and widely umbilicated. The spire is flat, not rising above the plane of the last whorl. The four whorls are convex, with a gentle antesutural slope. The surface of the shell is smooth and shining, but incremental striae are visible under magnification. The aperture is roundly oval, a little wider than high. The peristome of the holotype is incomplete.

This marine species is endemic to Australia and occurs off New South Wales, South Australia, Tasmania, Victoria.



</doc>
<doc id="41070406" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070406" title="Martin Ritchie">
Martin Ritchie

James Martin Ritchie, FCMI, FRSA (29 May 1917 – 3 June 1993) was the chairman and chief executive of Bowater Paper Corporation from 1969 to 1972. At the time Bowater's was the world's largest newsprint producer.

James Martin Ritchie was educated at Strathallan School in Perthshire, Scotland. In 1934 he joined the family firm, Andrew Ritchie and Son Ltd, based in Glasgow, becoming a director in 1938. The company manufactured corrugated fiber containers. In 1938 he joined the Territorial Army as an officer.

During World War II Ritchie served with a British Army Heavy Anti-Aircraft Regiment and was promoted captain in 1941. In 1943 he passed staff college and from 1944-1945 served as Deputy Assistant Adjutant and Quartermaster General with Middle East Command.

Following the completion of his military service, Ritchie rejoined the family firm, which had become part of the Eburite Organisation, becoming managing director in 1950. In 1956 the business merged with Bowater and was renamed Bowater-Eburite Ltd, with Ritchie as general manager. He was appointed a director of Bowater Paper Corporation Limited in 1959, managing director in 1964, deputy chairman and managing director in 1967 and chairman and chief executive from 1969 until his retirement in 1972.

Ritchie oversaw Bowater's purchase of Ralli International for £80 million in 1972. A deal designed to diversify Bowater's away from the paper trade and into other product areas.
Ritchie also served as chairman of British Enkalon Limited between 1975 and 1983, chairman of Haymills Holdings Limited from 1977 until 1983 and as a director of Sun Alliance and London Insurance Limited from 1970 to 1987.



</doc>
<doc id="41070459" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070459" title="Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor">
Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor

Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor is an open world action-adventure video game developed by Monolith Productions and published by Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment. The game was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One in September 2014 and PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 in November 2014. An original non-canon story set in the legendarium created by J. R. R. Tolkien, the game takes place between the events of "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". The player controls Talion, a Ranger who bonds with the wraith of the Elf Lord Celebrimbor, as the two set out to avenge the deaths of their loved ones. Players can engage in melee combat, and use wraith abilities to fight and manipulate enemies. The game introduces the Nemesis System, which allows the artificial intelligence of non-playable characters to remember their prior actions against the game's protagonist and react accordingly.

The game's development began in 2011. In order to create an accurate environment and be consistent with Tolkien's books, the developers consulted many people from Warner Brothers, as well as Peter Jackson, director of the "Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit" film trilogies. They also received assistance from Weta Workshop, who advised on the special effects. Monolith focused on the development of the PC, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One versions, while the development of the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions was outsourced to Behaviour Interactive.

"Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor" received critical acclaim upon release. Most praise was directed at its combat, open-world design, and the Nemesis System. Some criticism was aimed at the game's story and boss battles. "Shadow of Mordor" marked the biggest launch for a game based upon Tolkien's universe, and would go on to win several awards from video gaming publications, including "Game of the Year" in 2015. The game was supported by downloadable content upon release. A sequel, "", was released in October 2017.

"Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor" is a third-person open world action-adventure video game, where the player controls a ranger by the name of Talion who seeks revenge on the forces of Sauron after his family, consisting of his wife and son, are killed by those that lead them. Players can travel across locations in the game through parkour, riding monsters, or accessing Forge Towers, which serve as fast travel points. Though Talion is mortally felled in the game's introduction, the wraith of the Elven Lord Celebrimbor is able to use his power to keep Talion alive, along with gifting him wraith-like abilities to exact his revenge. Missions in the game feature main story missions that follow Talion's quest for revenge, side missions that involve following Gollum to find artifacts that are tied to Celebrimbor's past, missions to free the human slaves that have been captured by the Uruk armies and forced to work for Sauron, and additional quests to help forge new abilities for Talion's sword, bow, and dagger. The player also has the freedom to pursue side quests and roam around Mordor, with special activities to collect specific flora or to hunt certain creatures, or to find old artifacts or Elvish seals. Completing quests earns the player a number of rewards: experience points that are used to unlock new abilities for the player from both Talion's ranger and Celebrimbor's wraith skills, a Power value that allows the player to access more powerful abilities to unlock, and an in-game currency called "Mirian" that the player can use to improve Talion's health, wraith skill capacity, or forge new slots on his weapons to add additional runes (as described in the Nemesis System below).

In completing missions, the player can have Talion engage in melee, ranged combat, and stealth approaches, with some missions rewarding the player more for completing the mission in a specific manner. Talion's ranger abilities are enhanced through Celebrimbor, allowing the player to mix combat with special focus-based attacks; these latter attacks can be used to slow time down while aiming with the bow, drain focus out of an enemy foe, or, later in the game, brand the foe to become an ally of Talion. The combat system uses an attack-chain system that enables the player to perform special moves after building the chain to a large enough value, such as instantly draining a foe of focus or performing an area focus attack. With the combat system, they can also counter and dodge attacks. Stealth is a critical element in some missions; several areas are considered Strongholds and should Talion's presence be discovered, an alarm will sound and more Uruks will arrive to try to kill him.

A core feature of "Shadow of Mordor" is the Nemesis system. The game can track any Uruk (A nastier orc, the general antagonists of the game) that the player comes into contact with. While there are "generic" Uruk for the player to fight en masse, and will be as cannon fodder as part of Sauron's armies, the game will begin tracking Uruk that perform any notable talents within the game, such as killing the player, or surviving an encounter with the player. These Uruk will be promoted into captains. Defeating these leaders will help to weaken Sauron's army, and these leaders will drop a rune which the player can install on Talion's weapons to provide additional buffs in battle. Alternatively, being killed by a leader will cause the current mission to be cancelled and the player returned to a safe point to continue exploring, and the leader will gain additional power, making him more difficult to defeat in the next encounter. If the procedurally generated Orcs survive an encounter with Talion, they will also be promoted. Further, such deaths are tracked through online servers, and the player's friends on the various network services will be notified of this death and be offered the chance to accept a Vendetta mission, and exact revenge on the Uruk. If the mission is successful the game will give rewards to both the original player and the victorious friend.

The leader Uruk will have a range of strengths and weaknesses, the latter that can be exploited in combat to quickly weaken and defeat the leader. The player can gain knowledge of these through finding intelligence mostly by draining and interrogating marked Uruks for this. Being able to exploit such weaknesses in defeating the leader will gain a better quality rune and more experience points in this manner. Once the player gains the ability to brand Uruks, they can brand these leaders and convert portions of Sauron's army to their side. At this point, the player can use the Nemesis system to trigger infighting within the Uruk forces which they can then directly participate in, helping to weaken the army further. Uruks that survive their encounter with Talion will remember this when Talion combats them again; for example, an Uruk who was thrown into a fire by Talion might want revenge on him for being disfigured.

The game takes place in the 60-year gap between the events of Tolkien's "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of The Rings". The family of Talion (voiced and motion captured by Troy Baker), a ranger of Gondor responsible for guarding the Black Gate of Mordor, is killed by the armies of Sauron, but Talion is revived with "wraith-like abilities" and heads into Mordor to exact his revenge. Mordor is not yet a barren wasteland in this story. The player will encounter Gollum (voiced by Liam O'Brien). Talion discovers that the wraith who revived him is Celebrimbor (voiced by Alastair Duncan), the greatest Elven smith master of the Second Age, who also seeks revenge against Sauron.

Talion, a captain of Gondor, serves within a garrison stationed at the Black Gate of Mordor. The garrison is attacked by Sauron's Orc forces led by three Black Númenórean captains: the Hammer of Sauron (John DiMaggio), the Tower of Sauron (JB Blanc), and their leader, the Black Hand of Sauron (Nolan North). Talion, his wife Ioreth (Laura Bailey), and his adult son, Dirhael (Jack Quaid), are captured and ritually sacrificed by the Black Hand in an attempt to summon into himself the wraith of the Elf Lord Celebrimbor. However, Celebrimbor (who suffers from amnesia due to his centuries as a wraith) instead merges with Talion, preventing him from dying alongside his family. Talion and Celebrimbor then depart to both uncover Celebrimbor's identity—increasing his/their power—and avenge the death of Talion's family.

Over the course of their travels, Talion and Celebrimbor encounter Gollum multiple times, who is wandering Mordor in search of his "Precious" (The One Ring). Gollum possesses the ability to see and speak with Celebrimbor due to his prior contact with the One Ring, and pledges to serve the "Bright Master". Hoping that Celebrimbor might lead him to the One Ring, Gollum leads Celebrimbor to relics of his past, each of which restore parts of his lost memories. Celebrimbor gradually recalls how Sauron, disguised as Annatar, the Lord of Gifts, deceived him into forging the Rings of Power. Celebrimbor ultimately assisted Sauron in forging the One Ring, but was able to steal it from him. Celebrimbor proclaimed himself the Bright Lord of Mordor and raised an army of Orcs against Sauron. However, the Ring ultimately betrayed Celebrimbor and returned to Sauron. A victorious Sauron then punished Celebrimbor by executing his wife and daughter (whom Sauron had taken hostage to force Celebrimbor to aid him) before finally killing him with his own smithing hammer.

In his search for the Black Hand, Talion allies himself with Hirgon, a ranger deserter who leads a community of Gondorian outcasts choosing to settle in Mordor, and Ratbag the Coward (Phil LaMarr), an Orc who offers to bring Talion closer to the Black Hand in exchange for his assistance in climbing Mordor's military hierarchy. Talion helps Ratbag ascend the ranks to the level of warchief by killing each of his immediate superiors, finally becoming Warchief himself. Talion then goes after the other Warchiefs in Udun, weakening Sauron's forces in that area. Soon enough, Hirgon has a plan to draw out the Black Captains. Using acquired grog and blasting powder, Talion helps the Outcasts destroy a statue dedicated to Sauron. Instead of the Black Hand answering the "message", the Hammer of Sauron is sent, punishing Ratbag for not answering his duties to kill the ranger. Talion and The Hammer then face off, with packs of Uruk joining the fight, but after a savage battle, Talion manages to kill The Hammer.

Talion is then sought out by the warrior Lithariel, the daughter of Queen Marwen (Claudia Black), who claims to be able to assist Celebrimbor with his mission. Marwen is the ruler of Núrn, a kingdom of sea raiders located in the south of Mordor. She uses her powers to guide Talion and Celebrimbor to another of Celebrimbor's relics. Talion also gets help from a Dwarf hunter named Torvin, teaching Talion the ways of the hunt to dominate Caragors and Graugs (beasts native to Mordor), eventually fighting a massive Graug from Torvin's past who killed Torvin's hunting partner, later revealed to be his brother. Later, Marwen advises them to use Celebrimbor's powers to take control of an army of orcs and other beasts, using them to lead an assault against Sauron. Talion eventually realizes that the wizard Saruman is possessing Marwen, and assists Lithariel in freeing her from his control. Talion, however, still carries out Saruman's plan, leading an army of mind-controlled orcs in an assault against the Black Hand's stronghold at Ered Glamhoth. However, rather than the Black Hand, Talion finds the Tower of Sauron waiting for him. The Tower mockingly taunts Talion that Celebrimbor chose him as a host and can free him at any time and offers the elf a place at Sauron's side. Refusing the offer, the two battle and Talion emerges victorious after viciously stabbing the Tower to death with his son's sword. Afterwards, Celebrimbor confesses that the Tower told the truth and promises to let Talion join his family in death if he wishes, once the Black Hand is slain.

Talion then travels to the Black Gate for a final confrontation with the Black Hand. The Black Hand quickly incapacitates him with a spell that also restores the last of Celebrimbor's memories. He then kills himself as part of a ritual that forces Celebrimbor to depart from Talion and merge with himself. This allows Sauron to possess the Black Hand's body and incarnate in physical form. However, Celebrimbor is able to briefly paralyze Sauron from within, allowing Talion to destroy Sauron's physical form. With the Black Hand dead, Celebrimbor wishes to depart for Valinor. Talion instead convinces him to stay and attempt to overthrow Sauron. Gazing at Mount Doom, Talion declares his intention to forge a new Ring of Power.

Development of "Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor", which took about three years, began in late 2011. The game's lead developer was Monolith Productions, who had experience on a Middle-earth game with "Guardians of Middle-earth" (a multiplayer online battle arena game released in 2012). According to design director Michael de Plater, "Shadow of Mordor" was developed in parallel with "Guardians of Middle-earth" but handled by a separate team. It was published by Warner Bros., who had published the "" game series. The game was designed by de Plater, who had worked with Creative Assembly on "" and Ubisoft on "Tom Clancy's EndWar" and "".

"Shadow of Mordor" was Monolith's first third-person open world video game for the eighth generation consoles PlayStation 4 and Xbox One, and de Plater considered its development an educational experience for the studio. In Monolith's introduction to the genre, many core mechanics were built from scratch and the studio were inspired by successful video games such as the "Batman: Arkham" series created by Rocksteady Studios; those games inspired "Shadow of Mordor" stealth and free-flow combat mechanics. The studio considered Rocksteady's games good examples of how to handle a licensed title.

The game's signature feature is its Nemesis system. The Monolith team considered themselves experts in artificial intelligence, and wanted to push its boundaries. Allowing players to choose their story (a sandbox-game pillar) and "leverage the new generation hardware through innovation", the team wanted to create a system allowing non-playable characters to respond to player actions; this later became the Nemesis system. The system's idea was frameworked three months after development began, and to best present it everyone in the studio was involved. The developers hoped that with the system, orcs could be memorable for players. It was made more complex during the game's early development, incorporating personal relationships among orcs, but was later pared down when the studio considered it too complicated. The Nemesis system was also inspired by pen-and-paper role-playing games. Although most orcs are similar, some were designed with distinctive behavior patterns. These orcs have dialogue written by Dan Abnett, and the team hoped the special orcs would surprise players. The team also hoped that the system would provide tension and competition, similar to a multiplayer game. The studio was inspired by sports games, where the narrative continues when players lose a match. This can prevent immersion and narrative from breaking when players die in the game. According to Rob Roberts, the system is designed so players can emotionally attach to the protagonist through gameplay drama. They also hoped that through the system, players can create their own villain, leading to an organic story.

"Shadow of Mordor" bridges the gap between "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings", with the team wanting to show iconic elements of the universe in an original way. The team had to draw notes on Tolkien's notes and appendices to ensure that their vision for the game would not change the franchise's timeline. Although the game's environment is inspired by the books and films, several places (such as Udûn and the Sea of Nurnen) were re-imagined. Art director Phil Straub considered consistency with the lore and presenting "something visually new" and realistic the most important elements of creating the game, and the team did not incorporate many fantasy elements in its world. To depict volcanic activity, the studio sent a team to Eastern Washington and the Columbia River plateau to photograph a volcano; to create other parts of the game environment, they studied photos of Iceland and New Zealand and yellow stone found worldwide. Since "Shadow of Mordor" is set before "The Lord of the Rings", its landscape is less post-apocalyptic; environments also vary by weather, lighting and atmosphere.

The game has a standalone plot. Early in development the team consulted Peter Jackson, director of "The Lord of the Rings" and "The Hobbit" film trilogies, who advised them against a film tie-in. According to de Plater, the story is character-driven to be "authentic" relative to Tolkien's themes. The game was written by Christian Cantamessa, who was lead writer and lead designer for Rockstar San Diego's "Red Dead Redemption". According to Roberts, the story is designed for accessibility by all players (regardless of their familiarity with the franchise) by creating natural interactions and believable relationships among the characters. Its protagonist is Talion, a half-human, half-wraith inspired by Boromir. Although Torvin was originally proposed as a playable character, the idea was scrapped, as the team wanted the game to have a single protagonist, like "The Hobbit" and "The Lord of the Rings". The wraith is later revealed as Celebrimbor, creator of the Rings of Power. The development team picked Celebrimbor because they considered his backstory sufficiently interesting to expand the canon's authenticity, allowing the team to write a story around power (a major theme of the game). Another important component was "Mordor" tone. The team created a dark atmosphere with humor, reflected in dialogue and voice acting. This was handled by Dan Abnett, who previously worked on books related to "Warhammer" "dark and gritty" universe. The team hired David Salo, a linguist who worked on the Tolkien's languages for the "Lord of the Rings" film trilogy, to develop the Orcs' Black Speech. The game's narrative was also inspired by "BioShock", which according to de Plater, has successfully incorporated systemic stories with players' choices. To prevent inaccuracies, Monolith consulted several Tolkien scholars from Warner Bros. and collaborated with Weta Workshop (Jackson's design company) on the game's special effects and scenery. To depict well-known characters the company partnered with Middle-earth Enterprises, the franchise-rights holder, to prevent misuse and contradiction between the game's story and Tolkien's.

Monolith focused on developing the game's PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions, with development of the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions outsourced to Behaviour Interactive. Although the game's core gameplay mechanics, story and narrative are unchanged in the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 ports, some features (such as the Nemesis system) are less complex than the PlayStation 4 and Xbox One versions. According to the game's developer, the Nemesis system was too large for older consoles.

The music for "Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor" was composed by Garry Schyman and Nathan Grigg, and a soundtrack album was released digitally by WaterTower Music on September 30, 2014. In designing the game's music, the team used a number of sonic tools which synchronize with other aspects of the game (such as player actions and enemy movements); combat music included waterphones and spring drums.

In August 2013 an artist mentioned that Monolith Productions was working on a AAA title separate from "Guardians of Middle-earth", and on November 12 its title was announced. Although the game was originally scheduled for release on October 7, 2014, according to Warner Bros. its release was moved up to September 30 in North America and October 3 in the United Kingdom due to "fans' excitement". The PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions were released on November 18 in North America and November 21 in Europe.

On December 16, 2014, the downloadable content (DLC) "Lord of the Hunt" was released. Its storyline revolved around Torvin, and it included new runes, skins and bosses. "Lord of the Hunt" received mixed reviews from critics. The final DLC for "Shadow of Mordor", titled "The Bright Lord", is set 3,000 years before the main campaign and allows players to control Talion's companion, Celebrimbor. It adds a chapter to "Shadow of Mordor" in which players can complete ten more missions and fight Sauron. The content was released on February 24, 2015 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A Game of the Year edition with DLC was announced on April 29, 2015 and released on May 5 for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One. A special edition, with in-game items and a steelbook, was introduced on August 1.

The review aggregator website Metacritic gave the Microsoft Windows version a score of 84 out of 100 (based on 17 reviews), the PlayStation 4 version scored 84 out of 100 (based on 85 reviews), and the Xbox One version scored 87 out of 100 (based on 12 reviews).

The game's core feature, its Nemesis system, was praised. According to Lucas Sullivan of GamesRadar, the system elevated "Shadow of Mordor" to excellence by making its villains memorable and adding personality to its protagonist. Brad Shoemaker of Giant Bomb agreed, writing that the system created many distinctive characters and its side content extended the game's longevity. Joystiq's Alexander Sliwinski said that the system made each playthrough unique and made the game stand out from other action games. Chris Carter of "Destructoid" found the system gimmicky, since it failed to create unique villains; it added different appearances and weaknesses to villains without adding personality.

"Shadow of Mordor" combat was considered excellent by most critics. Shoemaker and Sliwinski compared it to the rhythm-based combat system of the "" game series; both found it engaging and fluid. Shoemaker praised the game's combat variety; the combination of the combat and nemesis systems created "a specific kind of chaotic, emergent nonsense" desirable in an open world game. According to Sliwinski and Shoemaker, even without the Nemesis system the combat system would make the game compelling. Although Matt Miller of "Game Informer" found the game's focus on killing made it repetitive, failing to capture the charm of its inspirations "Assassin's Creed" and "Batman: Arkham", Kevin VanOrd of GameSpot called "Shadow of Mordor" combat an improvement of the "Assassin's Creed" formula.

Reception of the game's storyline was mixed. Although Shoemaker and Sliwinski praised its "dark" tone, Shoemaker found some story elements (such as Gollum's introduction) forced and designed to appeal to a particular audience. According to "Game Informer" Matt Miller, "Shadow of Mordor" fails to successfully tie together all of its various plot threads in the game's conclusion. Kevin VanOrd of GameSpot also found the storyline erratic, dragged down by anti-climactic fights and scenes. Dan Stapleton of IGN wrote that the story introduced memorable characters but would not make sense to fans of the series, and his interest in the game waned towards its end. "Destructoid" Chris Carter was disappointed in a plot he considered generic ("Go here, kill this, draw out this big bad, then kill him for your family"); the game failed to add anything new to the universe, and its side missions were more interesting than the main campaign.

Other aspects of "Shadow of Mordor" were praised. Sullivan enjoyed its "Lord of the Rings"' lore, and found the number of collectibles in the game "staggering". Miller also admired Monolith's extensive use of lore in the game, and praised its soundtrack and voice-acting; Stapleton agreed, particularly about the voice acting.

Elements of the game were criticized. Sullivan found some side missions repetitive, and Sliwinski was disappointed with some of the boss battles. Miller wrote that some "Shadow of Mordor" features are too complex and inaccessible for new players or those unwilling to use strategy. Critics disagreed about the Nemesis system. Miller wrote that the system fell flat in the game's final hours; according to VanOrd, the system was unappealing until the game's second half. Carter found the unskippable cutscenes after a player died annoying.

Unlike "Shadow of Mordor" current-generation versions, the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions received mixed-to-negative reviews and many technical problems were noted. According to Thomas Morgan of Eurogamer its frame rate was substandard, and Yannick LeJacq of Kotaku cited "many technical hiccups and glitches". Morgan believed that the game developers spent little effort on the port, and LeJacq questioned the need to release the game for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 at all. "Shadow of Mordor" was well received by "BioShock" series creator Ken Levine, who called it the first open world game with a non-linear story and narrative and said he would bring some of its elements to his upcoming science-fiction project.

"Shadow of Mordor" release was the most successful for a "Lord of the Rings"-based game. The game debuted at number two in the UK retail software sales chart in its first week (behind "FIFA 15"), and was the ninth-bestselling game in the United States in October 2014.

When "Shadow of Mordor" was introduced, Monolith was accused by former Ubisoft employee Charles Randall of using assets (such as the protagonist-animation code) from "Assassin's Creed II". Monolith responded that all their project's assets were developed from scratch; they had confidence in their originality, and the game was based upon the Nemesis system.

In October 2014, after the usual video game review outlets were unable to obtain early access to "Shadow of Mordor", John Bain (known as TotalBiscuit) said that YouTube video creators had been offered early access in exchange for agreeing to a contract requiring them to describe it positively. Jim Sterling of "The Escapist" obtained a copy of one of the contracts and analyzed it in detail. The Federal Trade Commission began an investigation and announced in July 2016 that Warner Brothers Home Entertainment had violated the Federal Trade Commission Act, and that the company must declare sponsored advertising in the future.

The game's sequel, "Middle-earth: Shadow of War", was announced in February 2017. The sequel was developed by Monolith Productions and published by Warner Bros. It was released Worldwide on October 10, 2017.


</doc>
<doc id="41070474" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070474" title="Clockhammer">
Clockhammer

Clockhammer was an alternative metal group from Nashville, Tennessee, active during the late 1980s through mid 1990s, once described as "a cross between Frank Sabbath and Black Sinatra."

Originally the brain-child of Vanderbilt University undergrads, Christian Nagle and Matt Swanson, the 1987 line-up consisted of Byron Bailey (vocals, guitar), Nagle (vocals, guitar), Swanson (bass), and Ken Coomer (drums). Clockhammer soon gained a local following, opening for such bands as Firehose, DC3, and Meat Puppets. After an altercation between Nagle and Swanson in the summer of 1988, Nagle left to finish college and the band continued as a trio.

In the early 1990s the trio's music became popular in the college radio scene and many predicted Clockhammer would be a breakthrough success. Bailey's guitar playing reached a plateau by the time the debut album was recorded, evident in the intro to the song "Extra Crispy." The lyrics to songs like "Sun Goes Black" show an artistic edge over most jazz metal at the time. Bailey's guitar playing would draw large crowds at Nashville's Exit/In, which was "the place" for alternative music in the Music City. Infighting doomed the lineup in early 1992, due to disagreements over songwriting credits, what songs to perform live, and money problems. When Bailey left the group in the middle of a tour that year, the trio was finished.

Bailey and Nagle went on to re-form Clockhammer in 1993, with Mark Smoot (bass), and Chris Gallo (drums). Nagle and Smoot had played together in the short-lived project Chainsaw Jazz, and Smoot and Gallo in the group Jaws of Life. This last version of Clockhammer produced only one album, So Much For You on the German label Houses in Motion and it was never released in the US. The label-dictated list of songs was not entirely to the band's liking, and as family, money, management, and other concerns loomed, the group amicably disbanded in 1995.

Byron Bailey was reportedly influenced by the likes of King Crimson and Cream.

Ken Coomer recorded and was a member of Wilco and went on to produce several projects, including, Latin sensation Chetes, Son's Of Bill, Will Hoge and more. and Swanson with My Dad Is Dead and Lambchop. Nagle was a founding member of the Japanese band, Illuminati, and is now a teacher and author in Tokyo, Japan. Bailey played drums and bass for the short-lived Portland, Oregon band, Vista Bridge. He now teaches English in Poquoson, VA. Smoot continues to record and perform music in the Washington, D.C. area. Chris Gallo plays with Richmond, Virginia-based Hex Machine, a tour-opener for Clutch.


Clockhammer combines metal, jazz, and funk with Byron Bailey's vocals. Bailey's vocal style has been described as that of a "pissed off angel."



</doc>
<doc id="41070504" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070504" title="Algirdas Sysas">
Algirdas Sysas

Algirdas Sysas (born 5 March 1954 in Vilnius, Lithuania) is a Lithuanian social democratic politician and trade unionist. He is the Deputy Speaker of the Seimas (Parliament) of the Republic of Lithuania since November 2012 and Deputy Chair of the Lithuanian Social Democratic Party (LSDP) since 2009. Prior to political activities, Sysas was the leader and initiator of the independent Lithuanian trade unions.

Sysas first studied radio-electronics and graduated Vilnius Polytechnic College in 1973. After three years of compulsory service at the Soviet Navy (Military Maritime Fleet of the Soviet Union), he continued his studies at Faculty of Economics at Vilnius University. He graduated in 1982 receiving a diploma in Labour Economics.

Sysas started his professional career as a worker at a radio measurement device factory. In 1976 he joined a company producing magnetic tape recorders VILMA. From worker to head of shop, and subsequently deputy head of a major division, Sysas was elected chairman of the factory trade union in 1987. From 1989, he led the independent Lithuanian Metalworkers' Union as its elected Chairman, and a year later he organised and chaired Unification, the independent Lithuanian Trade Union. As the Soviet Union was crumbling and Lithuania was regaining political independence, the Unification was cooperating and supporting the independent Social Democratic Party. Finally, Sysas lead the consolidation of the Unification and another major national Trade Union Centre to become the Lithuanian Trade Union Confederation.

In 1995 he was elected at Vilnius municipal elections as a trade union candidate listed on the Social Democratic Party list, and worked at the municipal Social Affairs Committee. In 1996 he was listed as a non-party member on the Social Democratic Party list and was elected for the first time to the Seimas (Lithuanian Parliament), where Social Democrats won 9 seats. 
Sysas was re-elected in 2000, 2004, 2008 and 2012 (five consecutive mandates). He joined the Social Democratic Party in 2006.


Sysas belongs to the inter-parliamentary relations groups with Austria, China, France, Germany, Japan, North European countries (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden), Poland and Romania.

Since 2012, Sysas is Chair of the Seimas Delegation in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe as well as a Member in the Seimas Delegation in the Inter-Parliamentary Lithuanian–Polish Assembly.

Sysas is married and has two children and one granddaughter.

Sysas has been promoting healthy lifestyle and daily exercise. He has been adept at orienteering since the 1970s, participating in numerous local, national and international competitions. Sysas is President of local club Labirintas (Labyrinth) and was President of Lithuanian Orienteering Federation in 1999–2006. He is also a long-distance (including marathon and half-marathon) runner, participates in multichallenge (multisports, that include running or orienteering, cycling, water sports, etc.) competitions, practices skiing (cross-country and mountain), etc.




</doc>
<doc id="41070582" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070582" title="Mauda Super Thermal Power Station">
Mauda Super Thermal Power Station

Mauda Super Thermal Power Station or NTPC Mauda is located at Mauda a Tehsil in Ramtek subdivision of Nagpur district in Nagpur revenue Division in the Berar region in the state of Maharashtra, India. The power plant is one of the coal based power plants of National Thermal Power Corporation. 1000 MW Stage 1 was dedicated to nation by Prime Minister Narendra Modi on 21 August 2014.

Bharat Heavy Electricals Limited (BHEL) is the EPC contractor (EPCC) for the power project.


</doc>
<doc id="41070588" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070588" title="Edward Thorne (naval officer)">
Edward Thorne (naval officer)

Rear Admiral Edward Courtney "Ted" Thorne, (29 October 1923 – 23 October 2013) was a senior Royal New Zealand Navy officer. He rose to be Chief of Naval Staff and later served as the Commissioner of the New Zealand Fire Service.

Thorne was born in Seatoun, Wellington, on 29 October 1923 and was educated at Rongotai College from 1935 to 1938, followed by Nelson College from 1938 to 1941. After leaving school, he travelled to England, becoming a cadet at Dartmouth. His training included time in the cruiser "Hawkins" and during the war he served in vessels including the heavy cruiser "Devonshire" and the destroyer "Lamerton".

Following the Second World War, Thorne spent time with the Royal Navy 2nd Minesweeping Squadron and returning to New Zealand he served in "Taupo", "Bellona" and "Kaniere". He was in command of the naval radio station at Waiouru on Christmas Eve 1953 when news of the nearby Tangiwai disaster came through, and he led naval personnel in the ensuing recovery operation. In 1972 he was promoted to rear admiral and was appointed New Zealand's Chief of Naval Staff. Following his retirement from the navy, he was appointed the first commissioner of the New Zealand Fire Service.

He died in Auckland on 23 October 2013.

In the 1972 New Year Honours, Thorne was appointed a Commander of the Order of the British Empire. He was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath in the 1975 Queen's Birthday Honours.



</doc>
<doc id="41070622" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070622" title="Emma Abbott Memorial Chapel">
Emma Abbott Memorial Chapel

The Emma Abbott Memorial Chapel is a late Victorian church located at 52 Cooper St., Charleston, South Carolina. On October 4, 1890, the Citadel Square Baptist Church bought a parcel at the northwest corner of Cooper and America Streets for the construction of a mission church serving the Eastside. The land was marshy and had to be filled at a cost of $1500. In January 1891, Citadel Square Baptist Church learned that it had been named as one of several beneficiaries of the estate of Emma Abbott, a popular opera singer. She had attended church at Citadel Square Baptist Church during trips to Charleston in 1880, 1886, and February 1888.

Abbott left the church $5,000, but because of New York probate laws, the gift could not be released until January 1892. In the meantime, the church began foundation work for the new church. The church hired Richmond, Virginia architect S.H. Foulk to design their new mission. The work was performed by John Murphy for $4,000; he finished the work in December 1892. The cost of the building had been higher than expected, and the steeple was not built. A two-story entrance tower appears to have been a later addition.

The church was designed in the Romanesque Revival style and has broad gables with shingles, narrow weatherboard siding, and large round-topped openings. The interior is executed largely in wood.

Since 1977, the church has been occupied by the Mt. Sinai Holiness Church of Deliverance.


</doc>
<doc id="41070730" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070730" title="Ralph DiLullo">
Ralph DiLullo

Ralph S. DiLullo (March 31, 1911 – August 9, 1999) was a professional baseball player, manager and scout whose career in the sport spanned 60 years.

DiLullo was a catcher in the minor leagues and later managed at that level in the Pittsburgh Pirates and Detroit Tigers organizations for five seasons. He then worked for the Chicago Cubs as a scout and was responsible for the signing of pitchers Joe Niekro and Bruce Sutter. He joined the Major League Baseball Scouting Bureau in 1975 and worked there until his 1993 retirement. He briefly re-joined the Cubs system in 1994, but soon retired once again.

In 1986, he was named the East Coast Scout of the Year by the Scout of the Year Foundation. The Ralph DiLullo Award, handed out by the East Coast Scouts Association, and the Ralph DiLullo Memorial Award, handed out by the New York Professional Hot Stove League, are named in his honor. He was elected to the Professional Baseball Scout's Wall of Fame, located at Richmond County Bank Ballpark, in 2006. A book, "Foresight 20/20: The Life of Baseball Scout Ralph DiLullo", was written about him. Upon his death in 1999, Grahame Jones of the "Los Angeles Times" called DiLullo, "baseball's premier scout."

DiLullo was born in Capracotta, Italy and died in Paterson, New Jersey, United States. His son, Ralph DiLullo, Jr., was a multi-sport star at Wagner College who spent two years in the minor leagues.


</doc>
<doc id="41070792" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070792" title="1955–56 Liga Bet">
1955–56 Liga Bet

The 1955–56 Liga Bet season was the first in which Liga Bet was the third tier of Israeli football due to the formation of Liga Leumit.

Maccabi Hadera (North Division champions) and Maccabi Sha'arayim (South Division champions) qualified for the promotion/relegation play-offs against the 9th- and 10th-placed clubs in Liga Alef.

A promotion-relegation play-off between the 9th and 10th-placed teams in Liga Alef, Ahva Notzrit Haifa and Beitar Jerusalem, and the winners of the regional divisions of Liga Bet, Maccabi Sha'arayim and Maccabi Hadera. Each team played the other three once.

1. Abandoned at the 70th minute with the score of 2–1 to Maccabi Hadera as Ahva Notzrit Haifa players protested awarding Hadera's second goal, which they claimed was stopped by the goalkeeper before the goal line.



</doc>
<doc id="41070939" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070939" title="Metyaki">
Metyaki

Metyaki (; ) is a rural locality (a "selo") in Arylakhsky Rural Okrug of Verkhoyansky District in the Sakha Republic, Russia, located from Batagay, the administrative center of the district, and from Bala, the administrative center of the rural okrug. Its population as of the 2010 Census was 16; down from 32 recorded in the 2002 Census.



</doc>
<doc id="41070969" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070969" title="A Little Bit of Love (Andreas Johnson song)">
A Little Bit of Love (Andreas Johnson song)

"A Little Bit of Love" is a song written by Andreas Johnson and Peter Kvint, and performed by Andreas Johnson at Melodifestivalen 2007. The song participated in the semifinale in Gävle on 24 February 2007, heading directly to the finals inside the Stockholm Globe Arena on 10 March 2007, finishing second. On 5 March 2007 the single was released. The single peaked at third position at the Swedish singles chart, and became a major radio hit both at Sveriges Radio and the commercial stadions.

The song also charted at Svensktoppen, entering the chart on 8 April 2007 on 2nd position. On 15 April 2007 the song topped the chart. On 19 August 2007 the song was at Svensktoppen for 20th and final time. before getting knocked out the upcoming week.



</doc>
<doc id="41070980" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070980" title="DyE">
DyE

Juan de Guillebon, better known by his stage name DyE, is a French musician. He is most known for the music video for the single "Fantasy" from his first album "Taki 183".

This is what DyE's record label said about him:


</doc>
<doc id="41070994" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41070994" title="Una-class submarine">
Una-class submarine

The "Una"-class submarine (also known as Type 911) was a class of six midget submarines built for the Yugoslav Navy at the Brodogradilište specijalnih objekata (English: Special objects shipyard) during the 1980s. They were designed with the purpose of laying small minefields and transporting naval special forces, with or without their submersibles, in shallow waters that were inaccessible for larger submarines. Due to their mission profile that called for a small design as well as the need to stay undetected, they lacked torpedo armament and a generator for battery recharging.

During the Croatian War of Independence and the dissolution of SFR Yugoslavia, five of the six boats were relocated to Boka Kotorska where they served with the SR Yugoslav Navy. One, "Soča" (P-914), was captured in drydock by Croatian forces. It was later modified and entered service with the Croatian Navy as . All of the boats have since been decommissioned.

During the 1970s the Brodarski Institute (BI) from Zagreb started working on a new class of submarines for the Yugoslav Navy (JRM). The project, designated B-91 and led by Lieutenant Colonel Davorin Kajić, was tasked with developing a class of midget submarines capable of operating in the shallow waters of the northern Adriatic. Using their small dimensions, the submarines were to be able to maneuver in depths as shallow as ; such abilities were needed to conduct offensive minelaying near the enemy coastline, reconnaissance, and transporting naval special forces in hostile waters.

All six boats were completed from 1985 to 1989 at the Brodogradilište Specijalnih Objekata (BSO) in Split, SR Croatia and named after rivers in SFR Yugoslavia: "Tisa" (P-911), "Una" (P-912), "Zeta" (P-913), "Soča" (P-914), "Kupa" (P-915) and "Vardar" (P-916). Further planned improvements included the addition of a Stirling engine, either by refitting the existing boats or building a new, seventh one, but the imminent breakup of Yugoslavia happened before anything was realized.

The "Una"-class featured a single-hulled design, measuring in length with an average draught of . The boats displaced when surfaced and when submerged. Because deploying naval commandos was one of their main tasks, they were equipped with an underwater exit/re-entry chamber.

Propulsion consisted of two electric motors, mounted on a single shaft and powered by two battery groups with 128 cells each. The class lacked the ability to recharge during surface drive making them dependent on external power sources such as harbours and depot ships. Maximum achievable speed was underwater and surfaced. Traveling at a speed of they had a range of . Maximum diving depth was . The sensor suite included an active/passive Krupp Atlas sonar.

In accordance with their expected mission, the boats could transport up to six naval commandos armed with 6–12 M-66 or M-71 limpet mines. Also at their disposal were four large AIM-70/71 bottom mines mounted on the outside of the submarines. Four R-1 swimmer delivery vehicles could be carried in place of the AIM-70/71 mines. With a full crew of six members the boats had an underwater endurance of 160 hours which was reduced to 96 hours if the complement numbered ten personnel (four crew members and six naval commandos).

All six boats were in service with the 88th submarine flotilla of the JRM with Lora Naval Base being their homeport. At the start of the Croatian War of Independence all boats except "Soča" were relocated to Montenegro without participating in combat operations. Croatian forces captured "Soča" in drydock at the BSO where it was undergoing an overhaul. "Soča" underwent a modification program that improved its autonomy by installing a diesel generator. It was recommissioned, now with the Croatian Navy, in 1996 as and remained in service until the early 2000s when it was declared redundant. The remaining boats entered service with the new SR Yugoslav Navy. The first ones to be decommissioned sometime between 1997 and 2001 were "Tisa" and "Una". In 2003 a decision was made that the ongoing major overhaul of "Kupa" would stop; the boat was decommissioned and broken up in 2008. It appears that the last "Una"-class boats in service with the SR Yugoslav Navy were "Zeta" and "Vardar", both of them being decommissioned in 2005.

Ownership of the decommissioned boats passed on to Montenegro after the country declared independence in 2006, ending the state of Serbia and Montenegro and its joint armed forces. In 2009 the Ministry of Defence announced that it is willing to donate three "Una"-class submarines to former SFR Yugoslav republics of Slovenia, Croatia and Serbia. Although the "Submariner" society from Pula was interested in accepting the donation and exhibiting it in a museum, the Croatian MoD responded with a statement that accepting the donation is against national interests; since most of the fleet of the former Yugoslav Navy was relocated to Montenegro at the beginning of the Croatian War of Independence, Croatia claims the military equipment of the former joint armed forces was stolen, and should be a subject of succession. The MoD further explains that the state interest is in compensation for that equipment, not returning "obsolete, damaged and corroded equipment which nowadays Serbia and Montenegro are unsuccessfully trying to sell".

Slovenia on the other hand reacted positively to the offer; in 2011 "Zeta" was loaded on a truck and transported by road through Serbia and Hungary. Although longer and thus more expensive, sea routes and roads that included crossing the Croatian border were avoided in fear of Croatian authorities confiscating the submarine. P-913 was restored with the help of the "Slovenian Submariners Society" and the Slovenian Army, being officially opened on 17 September 2011 at the Pivka Military History Park.

In 2013, "Una" and a "Heroj"-class attack submarine, "Heroj" (P-821), were restored and opened to the public in the museum section of the Porto Montenegro marina. The project was initiated by the "Submariner" Society from Tivat and was, after approval by the Montenegro MoD, financed by Porto Montenegro. The donation of one of the submarines to Serbia was initiated by the "Submariner" society from Belgrade in 2009. However it wasn't until five years later in June 2014 that the Government of Montenegro officially accepted the proposal and agreed to cede "Tisa" (P-911) to Serbia. The submarine will be exhibited at the Museum of Science and Technology in Belgrade.




</doc>
<doc id="41071043" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071043" title="Edwin Cooper">
Edwin Cooper

Edwin Cooper may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41071064" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071064" title="Elysius lavinia">
Elysius lavinia

Elysius lavinia is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="41071120" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071120" title="Sean Conway (swimmer)">
Sean Conway (swimmer)

Sean Conway (born 1981) is a Zimbabwean endurance adventurer, author and motivational speaker, who became the first person to cycle, swim, and run the length of Great Britain, from Land's End to John o'Groats.In 2016 he completed the world's longest triathlon, a 4,200 mile journey around the coast of Britain.

Conway was born in Harare, Zimbabwe on 6 April 1981. He later attended Hilton College in South Africa. He lived in Cheltenham. for a number of years before moving to the Lake District in 2016.

He earns his living as an adventurer, author and public speaker.

Starting on 30 June 2013, Conway set out to swim from Land's End in the south-west of Great Britain, to John o'Groats, in the north, travelling up the west coast of Great Britain and via the east coast of Ireland. He completed the swim on 11 November, the first person to do so, having swum , in 135 days, 90 of which were spent in the water, the others avoiding contrary tides, resting, and avoiding bad weather, sometimes ashore and sometimes on his support yacht. He grew a thick beard to help prevent jellyfish stinging his face.

He used the achievement to raise money for the charity War Child.

Sean Conway became the first person to complete an "ultimate triathlon" when he finished running from John O'Groats to Land's End, having already cycled and swum the entire way before. The run was made into a two-part documentary called Sean Conway:Running Britain for Discovery Channel UK. Sean Conway completed the "ultimate triathlon" unsupported, without the support of a team and lifeboats.


Going Solo Adventures Q&A Session with Sean Conway Part 1


</doc>
<doc id="41071122" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071122" title="WRD">
WRD

WRD may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41071187" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071187" title="Fernando Núñez Lázaro">
Fernando Núñez Lázaro

Fernando Núñez Lázaro (born 28 June 1978), known simply as Fernando, is a Spanish footballer who plays for Sant Cugat EFC as a defender.

Born in Barcelona, Catalonia, Fernando graduated from RCD Espanyol's youth system, making his senior debuts with the reserves in the 1998–99 season, in Segunda División B. On 24 July 1999 he appeared in his first and only game as a professional, playing the last 34 minutes in a 1–2 away loss against Montpellier HSC for the UEFA Intertoto Cup.

In the following years, Fernando competed in his native region and the lower leagues, representing UE Figueres, CE Mataró, CE Europa and AE Prat.



</doc>
<doc id="41071190" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071190" title="För kung och fosterland">
För kung och fosterland

"För kung och fosterland", written by Magnus Uggla and Anders Henriksson, is a song performed by Magnus Uggla at Melodifestivalen 2007. The song participated in the semifinal in Gävle on 24 February 2007, and reached Andra chansen in Nyköping on 3 March 2007, but failed to reach the finals. The song lyrics criticise consumer society.

On 5 March 2007, the single was released, peaking at number 11 on the Swedish singles chart.

The song also charted at Svensktoppen, entering the chart on 1 April 2007, ending up at number 10. The following week, the song was knocked from the chart.

During Melodifestivalen 2012, the song was appointed a "Tredje chansen" number.




</doc>
<doc id="41071197" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071197" title="British High Court">
British High Court

British High Court may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41071310" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071310" title="Method cascading">
Method cascading

In object-oriented programming, method cascading is syntax which allows multiple methods to be called on the same object. This is particularly applied in fluent interfaces.

For example, in Dart, the cascade:

is equivalent to the individual calls:
Method cascading is much less common than method chaining – it is found only in a handful of object-oriented languages, while chaining is very common. A form of cascading can be implemented using chaining, but this restricts the interface; see comparison with method chaining, below.

Cascading is syntactic sugar that eliminates the need to list the object repeatedly. This is particularly used in fluent interfaces, which feature many method calls on a single object.

This is particularly useful if the object is the value of a lengthy expression, as it eliminates the need to either list the expression repeatedly or use a temporary variable. For example, instead of either listing an expression repeatedly:

or using a temporary variable:

cascading allows the expression to be written once and used repeatedly:

Given a method call codice_1, after executing the call, method cascading evaluates this expression to the "left" object codice_2 (with its new value, if mutated), while method chaining evaluates this expression to the "right" object.

The following chain (in C++):

is equivalent to the simple form:
The following cascade (in Dart):

is equivalent to the simple form:
Cascading can be implemented in terms of chaining by having the methods return the target object (receiver, codice_3, codice_4). However, this requires that the method be implemented this way already – or the original object be wrapped in another object that does this – and that the method not return some other, potentially useful value (or nothing if that would be more appropriate, as in setters). In fluent interfaces this often means that setters return "this" instead of nothing.

Within the component statement of the with statement, the components (fields) of the record variable specified by the with clause can be denoted by their field identifier only, i.e. without preceding them with the denotation of the entire record variable. The with clause effectively opens the scope containing the field identifiers of the specified record variable, so that the field identifiers may occur as variable identifiers. 
Method chains and cascades were both introduced in Smalltalk; most subsequent object-oriented languages have implemented chains, but few have implemented cascades. In Smalltalk the semicolon operator can be used to send different messages to the same object:

Compare with separate statements, terminated with a period, also using a variable for abbreviation:
One subtlety is that the value of a method call ("message") in a cascade is still the ordinary value of the message, "not" the receiver. This is a problem when you do want the value of the receiver, for example when building up a complex value. This can be worked around by using the special codice_5 method that simply returns the receiver:

For example, the "add an object to a collection" method (codice_6) returns the object that was added, not the collection. Thus to use this in a cascade in an assignment statement, the cascade must end with codice_5, otherwise the value will just be the last element added, not the collection itself:
Visual Basic uses the codice_8 statement to enable an arbitrary number of method calls or property accesses on the same object:

codice_9 blocks in Visual Basic can be nested:

Among newer languages, Dart implements cascades, using a double-dot codice_10 "cascaded method invocation operation". Unlike Smalltalk, in Dart the value of a cascaded method invocation is the receiver (base object), not the value of the (uncascaded) method invocation, and thus there is no need for codice_5. Dart uses properties, and thus rather than using method syntax for getters and setters (codice_12), it uses field value/assignment syntax (codice_13), and cascades work with assignments:

is equivalent to:


</doc>
<doc id="41071349" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071349" title="Madre Tierra Resort and Spa">
Madre Tierra Resort and Spa

"Madre Tierra Resort and Spa"' is an eco-resort and spa, located about 2 kilometers north of the town of Vilcabamba near Loja, Loja Province, in Southern Ecuador. It is noted for its meticulously decorated rooms while being located on a hillside with waterfalls and gardens.


</doc>
<doc id="41071410" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071410" title="2013 Big South Conference Men's Soccer Tournament">
2013 Big South Conference Men's Soccer Tournament

The 2013 Big South Conference Men's Soccer Tournament will be the 30th edition of the tournament. Held from Nov. 14-17, it will determine the Big South Conference champion, and the automatic berth into the 2013 NCAA Division I Men's Soccer Championship. The Winthrop Eagles are the defending men's soccer champions.



</doc>
<doc id="41071415" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071415" title="Prime Vision BV">
Prime Vision BV

Prime Vision BV is a Dutch company which specializes in systems integration, automation, processing and recognition solutions for the international postal, warehousing, logistics and airport markets. 

The company has strong shareholders in PostNL - the national mail delivery company in the Netherlands, and First Dutch Innovations.

Headquartered in Delft, the Netherlands, Prime Vision operates globally 

In 1956 what would become Prime Vision starts life as a research department of the PTT.

A few years later, in 1961, The High Yield Character Reader (HYCR™), the core technology of Prime Vision, was invented. The HYCR has been developed for capturing hand written as well as machine printed text and has found a particular niche as the basis for secondary OCR engines. In this role, Prime Vision's HYCR-based systems complement other OCRs that have been principally designed for machine printed text. With the systems working in tandem the net read rate of letters, flats and parcels is boosted significantly. HYCR is now in use throughout the world and includes various language sets, including Hebrew, Chinese and Tamil.

In 2003 KPN Research (formerly known as PTT) was acquired by TNO Companies. Additional investments prepared the company for its first sales outside the Netherlands.

One year later, TNT (now known as PostNL) acquired 60% of the shares of Prime Vision from TNO. Additional investment led to an independent entity Prime Vision BV.

The majority of the TNO Companies shares are taken over in 2017 by First Dutch Innovations who became the new shareholder of Prime Vision.

Postal Technology International Award 2010 in category Automation Technology of the Year for WebCoding solutions.

Postal Technology International Award 2015 in category Last Mile Delivery of the Year for Digital Mail Man.

Postal Technology International Award 2016 in category Sorting Centre Innovation of the Year for MMS Dynamic Mail Processing Solution.

Postal Technology International Award 2017 in category Sorting Centre Innovation of the Year for Projection Sorting.

Postal Technology International Award 2017 in category Supplier of the Year.

Logistica Award 2017 for Autonomous Sorting.


</doc>
<doc id="41071451" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071451" title="Elysius melanoplaga">
Elysius melanoplaga

Elysius melanoplaga is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Ecuador and Bolivia.



</doc>
<doc id="41071512" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071512" title="Aldo Raimondi">
Aldo Raimondi

Aldo Raimondi (Rome, 1902 - Milan, 1997), was an Italian painter.

Born in Rome in 1902, Raimondi began his artistic career there in the studio of Giuseppe Signorini. He majored in architecture at the Academy of Fine Arts at the age of 22. Between 1925 and 1926 he lived in Milan, where he served in the Italian military; while there, he painted a fresco for a barracks, and restored some of the rooms of the Palazzo Cusani, home of the Command of the Army Corps.

Raimondi moved to Parma in 1926, and began to teach in the local Art Institute: there he inserted himself into a difficult environment without much effort, and was quickly befriended by the natives for his extraordinary dedication to his craft and the eye-catching qualities of his character. In Parma, he was commissioned by the mayor to paint some watercolors of the view over the old city, still visible today in the Town Hall, which are proof of his skill as a landscape artist; Raimondi would receive other such commissions both in Italy and abroad later on. In Parma in 1930 he organized his first of many solo exhibitions, both in Italy and abroad. From 1938-40 he replaced Achille Beltrame as the illustrator of "Domenica del Corriere," and later was called to illustrate "The People of Turin."

Specializing in watercolor painting, an exclusive piece of his repertoire, in 1939 he was appointed a professor of watercolors at the Academy of Brera, a chair he left immediately after the war to devote himself full-time to making films. Later he painted landscapes, animals, flowers and many portraits, including those of the Popes Pius XII, John XXIII (1958) and Pope Paul VI (1966). He also produced some windows for the Seminary of Monza, for the parish of Menaggio in Como, and the church of San Simpliciano in Milan.



</doc>
<doc id="41071545" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071545" title="The Catalyst (newspaper)">
The Catalyst (newspaper)

The Catalyst is an American weekly newspaper published by students of Colorado College Friday mornings of the school year in Colorado Springs, Colorado.

"The Catalyst" is the official and only student newspaper of Colorado College and has a print circulation of roughly 1,500 and is circulated on the college's campus and in downtown Colorado Springs.

The Catalyst consists of five sections: News, Sports, Active Life, Life, and Opinion.

The Catalyst has been in print since the 1890s, and has undergone dozens of transformations over the years. The newspaper was originally called "The Tiger."

The newspaper was instrumental in the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education's (FIRE) case on Colorado College's uniquely limited freedom of speech. FIRE had named Colorado College on its Red Alert list for several years over its treatment of two students who distributed a satirical flyer which parodied the college's Feminist and Gender Studies newsletter. Three articles in The Catalyst were cited by FIRE. 

During the FAA's highly publicized investigation of a group of Colorado College students in 2012, the FAA, as well as several media outlets, including the Associated Press, cited The Catalyst's reporting on the investigation. The small weekly's editor at the time, Jesse Paul, broke the news of investigation. 


</doc>
<doc id="41071560" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071560" title="Oppositinine">
Oppositinine

Oppositines are vasorelaxant beta-carbolines isolated from "Neisosperma".



</doc>
<doc id="41071610" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071610" title="Theia (planet)">
Theia (planet)

Theia () is a hypothesized ancient planet in the early Solar System that, according to the 'giant impact hypothesis', collided with Gaia (the early Earth) around 4.5 billion years ago. According to the hypothesis, Theia was an Earth trojan about the size of Mars, with a diameter of about . Geologist Edward Young of the University of California, Los Angeles, drawing on an analysis of rocks collected by Apollo missions 12, 15, and 17, proposes that Theia collided head-on with Earth, in contrast to the previous theory that suggested a glancing impact. Models of the impact indicate that Theia's debris gathered around Earth to form the early Moon.

Some scientists think the material thrown into orbit originally formed two moons that later merged to form the single moon we know today. The Theia hypothesis also explains why Earth's core is larger than would be expected for a body its size: according to the hypothesis, Theia's core and mantle mixed with Earth's.

Theia is thought to have orbited in the L or L configuration presented by the Earth–Sun system, where it would tend to remain. In that case, it would have grown, potentially to a size comparable to Mars. Gravitational perturbations by Venus could have eventually put it onto a collision course with the Earth.

Theia was named for the titaness Theia, who in Greek mythology was the mother of Selene, the goddess of the moon, which parallels the planet Theia's collision with the early Earth that is theorized to have created the Moon.

An alternative name, Orpheus, is also used.

According to the giant-impact hypothesis, Theia orbited the Sun, nearly along the orbit of the proto-Earth, by staying close to one or the other of the Sun–Earth system's two more stable Lagrangian points (i.e. either L4 or L5). 
Theia was eventually perturbed away from that relationship by the gravitational influence of Jupiter and/or Venus, resulting in a collision between Theia and Earth.

Computer simulations suggest that Theia was traveling no faster than when it struck Earth at an estimated 45 degree angle.

Originally, the hypothesis supposed that Theia had struck Earth with a glancing blow and ejected many pieces of both the proto-Earth and Theia, those pieces either forming one body that became the Moon or forming two moons that eventually merged to form the Moon. Such accounts assumed that if Theia had struck the proto-Earth head-on both planets would have been destroyed, creating a short-lived second asteroid belt between the orbits of Venus and Mars.

In contrast, evidence published in January 2016 suggests that the impact was indeed a head-on collision and that Theia's remains can be found in both the Earth and the Moon.

Additional evidence published in 2019 suggests that Theia may have formed in the outer solar system rather than the inner solar system, and that much of Earth's water originated on Theia.

From the beginning of modern astronomy, there have been at least four hypotheses for the origin of the Moon:

The lunar rock samples retrieved by Apollo astronauts were found to be very similar in composition to Earth's crust, and so were likely removed from Earth in some violent event.



</doc>
<doc id="41071619" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071619" title="George Henry Ford">
George Henry Ford

George Henry Ford aka G. H. Ford (20 May 1808 in London – July 1876 in London), was a South African natural history illustrator of exceptional merit who joined the British Museum in 1837. At first he portrayed animals and produced the plates in Sir Andrew Smith’s "Illustrations of the Zoology of South Africa" (1838-1847).

He was the son of an English farmer in the Cape, James Edward Ford, who was himself a talented miniaturist. Capt. James Edward Ford, one of the 1820 Settlers, was born in England in 1770, and emigrated to South Africa, landing at Port Elizabeth in April 1820. His wife was Frances Stransham 40, and with their 7 children, they were members of Bailie's Party of 256 Settlers on the ship "Chapman". The area allocated to the Party lay midway between Bathurst and the Great Fish River mouth and was named Cuylerville after Col. Jacob Cuyler. The children were Frances Jane Ford 14, James Samuel Ford 13, George Henry Ford 11, Edward Stransham Ford 9, Adelaide Elizabeth Ford 8, Jane Murray Ford 6, and John Henry Ford 3.

Andrew Smith made the acquaintance of the Ford family in 1821 when he was visiting farmers, urging them to provide him with specimens of interest. Young George Ford was suffering from a broken hip inflicted by a cow, an injury which left him permanently crippled, causing Smith to take him back to Cape Town. While convalescing there he was encouraged to paint and draw Smith's specimens. He proved to be so proficient that in 1825 Smith recommended him to the newly founded South African Museum in Cape Town, and later seconded him to the 1834-36 "Expedition for Exploring Central Africa". A report on this expedition was ""Illustrations of the zoology of South Africa, consisting chiefly of figures and descriptions of the objects of natural history collected during an expedition into the interior of South Africa, in the years 1834, 1835, and 1836, fitted out by The Cape of Good Hope Association for Exploring Central Africa, together with a summary of African zoology, and an inquiry into the geographical ranges of species in that quarter of the globe"".

When Smith returned to England in 1837, Ford accompanied him and found immediate recognition for the quality of his work. He was employed at the British Museum and worked there with Smith who was finally driven away by the discomfort of the Bloomsbury semi-basement. Ford continued working under John Edward Gray, assistant to the Keeper of Zoology. Ford, because of chronic backache, eventually worked from the Surbiton home of Albert Günther who was to succeed Gray in 1875.

George Viner Ellis (1812-1900) succeeded to the Chair of Anatomy at University College London in 1850, and became one of the foremost anatomists of his time. This institution, in its first thirty-five years of existence, published an extraordinary number of anatomical atlases. Ellis and Ford used the relatively new technique of chromolithography for their imperial folio atlas of fifty-eight plates, ""Illustrations of Dissections in a Series of Original Coloured Plates the Size of Life"". The plates were done between 1863 and 1867, with from four to seven completed each year. These plates are considered exceptionally clear and accurate, with an aesthetic depiction of the cadavers, printed by the Mintern Bros., and published by James Walton.

George Henry Ford was the husband of Emma Ethel Ford and was the father of John Ford, Warren Ford, Quentin Ford, Clive Ford, Mona Ford and 3 others.

G. H. Ford is commemorated in the scientific name of a species of Hispaniolan snake, "Chilabothrus fordii" (Ford's boa).


</doc>
<doc id="41071627" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071627" title="Melodinine">
Melodinine

Melodinines are monoterpenoid indole alkaloids isolated from "Melodinus".



</doc>
<doc id="41071654" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071654" title="Ivy Day">
Ivy Day


</doc>
<doc id="41071675" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071675" title="Tripfordine">
Tripfordine

Tripfordines are bio-active sesquiterpene pyridine alkaloids of "Tripterygium wilfordii".



</doc>
<doc id="41071685" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071685" title="Gregory Lavelle">
Gregory Lavelle

Gregory F. Lavelle is an American politician. He was a Republican member of the Delaware General Assembly from 2001 to 2019, serving in both the Delaware Senate and the Delaware House of Representatives. In the 2018 midterm elections, he lost his seat in the general election to Democrat Laura Sturgeon.

Lavelle was elected to the Delaware House of Representatives in 2000 to replace Republican Catherine Cloutier, who had won a seat in the Delaware Senate. He served as the minority leader in the House from 2011 to 2013, during which time he was a leading opponent to marriage equality in Delaware.

In 2012, Lavelle resigned his House seat to challenge incumbent Democrat Michael Katz in the Senate, which he won in a three-way general election. He served as the minority whip when he was ousted from his seat in 2018 in a major upset that was one of several losses for prominent Republicans in Delaware. His loss came after a contentious election where Lavelle and the Democratic Party of Delaware traded accusations of misconduct and campaign violations.

Lavelle earned his BS in business administration from the University of Delaware and his MS in government administration from the University of Pennsylvania.




</doc>
<doc id="41071700" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071700" title="Al Thompson and Son's Feed and Seed Company">
Al Thompson and Son's Feed and Seed Company

Al Thompson and Son's Feed and Seed Company (formerly Chuck's), also known as Tobler's Feed and Fuel or Farmers Feed and Seed and currently used as the Oregon Trail Agriculture Museum, is a building located in Nyssa, Oregon in the United States, listed on the National Register of Historic Places.




</doc>
<doc id="41071708" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071708" title="Boronuk">
Boronuk

Boronuk (; ) is a rural locality (a "selo"), the administrative center of, and one of two settlements in addition to Machakh in Babushinsky Rural Okrug of Verkhoyansky District in the Sakha Republic, Russia, located from Batagay, the administrative center of the district. Its population as of the 2010 Census was 307; down from 364 recorded in the 2002 Census.



</doc>
<doc id="41071709" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071709" title="Glee Club (TV series)">
Glee Club (TV series)

Glee Club is a British television programme that first aired on BBC One in 2011 and then on CBBC from 2012 to 2014 and is hosted by Sam & Mark.

In the first series, the glee clubs had to perform songs in different categories. There were three heats, a semi-final and a final.

In the second series there were eight heats. In the first round the three groups took turns to perform part of the same song as an ensemble (but all on the stage at the same time) with points being deducted for any featured vocals. The second round featured the groups taking it in turns to perform a song of their choice, but this time allowing solo/featured vocals with points being awarded. The final round saw the glee clubs taking to the stage individually and performing their "survival song".

The third and fourth series carried largely the same format as the first two series. There were five heats as opposed to eight, and there were only two rounds (with the second round featured in the second round scrapped). The third series onwards showed the selection process for the heats. Guest judges were also featured in this segment.

Throughout the heats, the judges score the clubs on vocal ability, creativity and performance and their combined score all together determined who wins the heat. The top 5 ranked groups out of all the heats were chosen to go to the live semifinals - whether or not the groups won the heat. The heat winners are awarded with medals. Promotional clips for Sport/Comic Relief are often shown in between each segment as the judges are verifying the scores. In earlier series (series 1 and 2), the total is out of 270, 90 points awarded for each round. Since the third series, a total of 240 points are up for grabs, 120 per round.

The live semifinals featured a phone vote, allowing viewers to vote for their favorite group; however, the judges still scored the glee clubs in the event of a tiebreak. The semi finals consisted of one performance from the glee clubs. The top three groups were put through to the final, where the same rules applied. It usually consisted of a guest performance.

The show is filmed at the BBC Scotland studios. Initial auditions take place in Glasgow, Manchester, London, Belfast, Birmingham, Bristol and Newcastle in front of vocal coach John Modi. These initial auditions are often featured but not fully televised. The top 24 glee clubs are picked by Modi to progress in the competition.

Carrie Grant, David Grant, and Sisco Gomez served as judges for the first two series. The judges' auditions in the third series featured Carrie and David Grant, vocal coach John Modi (who also took part in the heats from the third series) and guest judges Dionne Bromfield, Stacey Solomon, and Joe McElderry. Gomez did not feature in the judges' auditions for the third series, but joined the Grants and Modi from the heats onwards. The fourth series featured Bromfield, Kerry Ellis and Erin Boag as guest judges for the judges auditions.

The show was presented solely by Sam & Mark for the first two series. Naomi Wilkinson presented the judges' auditions for the third series and served as backstage presenter for the studio shows while Sam & Mark presented the main show.

Information needed

Information needed

The guest judges for the judges' auditions were Dionne Bromfield, Joe McElderry, and Stacey Solomon.

The guest judges for the judges' auditions were Dionne Bromfield, Kerry Ellis and Erin Boag.

 Tenacity were unable to progress to the heats, so Unity 7 took their place.

 Score after round 1.


</doc>
<doc id="41071732" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071732" title="Jade's Crossing">
Jade's Crossing

Jade's Crossing is a footbridge in Detling, Kent, England. The footbridge crosses the A249, a major road which runs between Maidstone and Sheerness. The crossing is named after Jade Hobbs, who was killed attempting to cross the road in December 2000 aged eight. Her mother, Caroline, subsequently campaigned for the crossing to be built, and won a Special Award at the 2003 Pride of Britain Awards for her efforts.

The A249 is a major dual carriageway, connecting the M20 and M2 motorways in Kent. It was improved in the 1960s to be an important link between these two roads, with the expectation that traffic would increase greatly along it.

The location of the crossing lies on the Pilgrim's Way, a historic track from Winchester to Canterbury, to the west of Detling village itself. The road junction was built in 1961 as part of the Detling Bypass, which took the A249 away from the village centre. It opened to traffic in the summer of 1962. By 2000, an estimated 30,000 vehicles were using the road daily.

In 2000, Jade Hobbs was eight years old, and lived with her parents Paul and Caroline and four siblings. They had been complaining about the traffic for some time, and had led a campaign to persuade Kent County Council to install a footbridge.

On 16 December, Jade was walking with her grandmother, Margaret Kuwertz, to do some Christmas shopping. Kuwertz had looked across the road, and decided it was safe, but just before they managed to cross the other side, she was hit by an oncoming vehicle. Jade attempted to pull her grandmother to safety, but was also killed by the impact. Caroline Hobbs later recalled "Mum must've thought they could get across, and hadn't seen the other car. And they were actually nearly across when the car hit them."

After the accident, Caroline Hobbs insisted that not only did the crossing impact safety, it also affected quality of life as it prevented children from being able to walk to the local school or village hall unaccompanied. Kent County Council installed two speed cameras at the junction in 2001 but refused to build a footbridge on cost grounds.

The Hobbs family set up a charity for donations, raising £75,000 towards constructing the footbridge. In March 2001, the council announced that the crossing would be built. It was officially opened by Caroline and Paul Hobbs in August 2002. The crossing includes a ballerina silhouette, based on one of Jade's favourite hobbies. The Hobbs' campaigning towards building the crossing resulted in Caroline winning the Special Award at the 2003 Pride of Britain Awards.

Caroline Hobbs continued to run the Jade Charity. In 2007, it donated road safety play equipment to local schools. The charity relies on the goodwill of visitors, principally walkers travelling along the Pilgrim's Way, to leave a donation to help fund the upkeep of the crossing. In 2010 the Hobbs family left the area and moved abroad.

In February 2011, the crossing was defaced with anti-Muslim graffiti.



</doc>
<doc id="41071733" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071733" title="Robot Girls Z">
Robot Girls Z

Has a personality similar to Z-Chan's.
Acts like a bratty little girl
A shy and caring girl

Unaired special episodes 3.5, 6.5, and 9.5 included with the Blu-ray/DVD releases.

A browser-based multiplayer PC game titled "Robot Girls Z Online" has been announced. "Robot Girls Z" will also have cameo appearances within the PlayStation Vita game "Ar Nosurge Plus.



</doc>
<doc id="41071735" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071735" title="Bowling at the 2010 Asian Games – Men's singles">
Bowling at the 2010 Asian Games – Men's singles

The men's singles competition at the 2010 Asian Games in Guangzhou was held on 15 November 2010 at Tianhe Bowling Hall.




</doc>
<doc id="41071759" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071759" title="Ronaldsway culture">
Ronaldsway culture

The Ronaldsway Culture was the way of life of a Stone Age people on the Isle of Man. Sometimes referred to as Manx Ronaldsway, it dates from the later Neolithic and from the third millennium BC, but more precise dating is a matter of debate. 

The culture, known only from the Isle of Man, is named after the archaeological remains of a settlement excavated at Ronaldsway Airport (now the Isle of Man Airport) in 1939 during a Second World War expansion, where a large quantity of material was found. These remains were later dated to between 2,200 and 1,900 BC. 

The culture is characterized by deep jars called Ronaldsway-style pots, stone axes with butts which have been roughened, and unusual flint tools; where it meets other cultures there have been finds of shared monuments, including stone circles, passage and entrance graves, and henges. It also has structures entirely of its own. The culture's typical polished axe has been met with nowhere else and shows an especially marked insularity.

It has been suggested that the distinctive characteristics of the Ronaldsway culture mean that during at least part of the late Neolithic age the people of the Isle of Man developed independently from those in Britain and Ireland.




</doc>
<doc id="41071781" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071781" title="List of doping cases in sport (A)">
List of doping cases in sport (A)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "A".


</doc>
<doc id="41071825" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071825" title="Winter Fuel Payment">
Winter Fuel Payment

The Winter Fuel Payment is a state benefit paid once per year in the United Kingdom to qualifying individuals. It is intended to cover the additional costs of heating over the winter months. It was first introduced by the Labour government in 1997, and was first announced by Chancellor of the Exchequer Gordon Brown in his Pre-Budget Statement of that year.

To be eligible for the benefit in a particular year, a person must be born before a specific qualifying date (e.g. 5 April 1954 for payments for the winter 2019-2020), and in a specified week (16-22 September 2019, for 2019-2020) must be resident in the United Kingdom and not in any of the excluded groups (prisoners, people receiving long-term free hospital care, those with certain immigration issues, and those living in care homes and receiving income-related benefits such as pension credit). Thus for the winter of 2019-2020 the benefit was available to those aged 65 by 5 April 2019.

The amount paid is greater for those aged eighty years and older, and is set so that a person living alone (or with people ineligible for the payment) is paid twice as much as a person in a household where more than one person receives the payment.

If the weather is particularly cold, a cold weather payment may also be made.

The Social Fund (Winter Fuel Payment) Regulations 2000 govern the system, under the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992.

In the winter of 2011-12, the benefit cost the UK Government £2,100,000,000 and was paid out to 12,700,000 people.


</doc>
<doc id="41071853" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071853" title="Borivoj Vukov">
Borivoj Vukov

Borivoje Vukov (July 8, 1929 – July 1, 2010) was a Serbian wrestler who competed in the 1952 Summer Olympics, in the 1956 Summer Olympics, and in the 1960 Summer Olympics. He was born in Senta and died in Belgrade


</doc>
<doc id="41071855" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071855" title="Cold weather payment">
Cold weather payment

Cold weather payments are paid by the United Kingdom government to recipients of certain state benefits in the event of particularly cold weather in the winter.

The Social Fund Cold Weather Payments (General) Regulations 1988 govern the system under the Social Security Contributions and Benefits Act 1992.
Each time the local temperature is less than 0°C for seven consecutive days between 1 November and 31 March then a payment of £25 is made. This is in addition to the Winter Fuel Payment.


</doc>
<doc id="41071862" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071862" title="Kalyi Jag (group)">
Kalyi Jag (group)

Kalyi Jag (Romani for "Black Fire") is a Hungarian Romani folk music group.

The group was founded in Budapest by Vlach Roma members who originated from the Szatmár county. It had roots in the Táncház movement. They were named Young Masters of Folk Art in 1979. The first album was released in 1987 and became a success. 

The music is based on traditional Romani music, primarily Vlach Roma music, with some modernization in the interpretations and the group has included instruments as the guitar and the mandolin.

Their music style inspired other Romani groups in Hungary. The group is popular in the Roma population in Hungary and neighbouring countries and has held concerts in many European countries.

Early members were 



</doc>
<doc id="41071863" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071863" title="Night of Passion">
Night of Passion

Night of Passion is a song written by Robert Olausson, Maiti Alfonzetti, Sonja Aldén and Johan Lyander, and performed by The Poodles at Melodifestivalen 2006, ending up fourth.

The single was released on 13 March 2006 as the first single of the 2006 Poodles album "Metal Will Stand Tall". At the Swedish singles chart the song peaked at second position. The song also charted at Svensktoppen reaching a fifth position on 16 April 2006. On 2 July 2006 the song did its final Svensktoppen visit, peaking at fourth position twice during a chart visit lasting 12 weeks. In 2006 the song also charted at Trackslistan.

The song was also performed at Dansbandskampen 2009 by Sannex in an acoustic version, when the Poodles and heavy metal was the theme of the night during the second competition of the year. Sannex also recorded the song on the album "Får jag lov?" 2011.



</doc>
<doc id="41071881" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071881" title="Homage to the Highest Power">
Homage to the Highest Power

Homage to the Highest Power (朝元圖) is a prime example of Daoist paintings in the Royal Ontario Museum collection. The wall painting was created during the late Yuan Dynasty, c. 1271 – 1368 AD. The painting is colored pigments mixed with clay and plaster. It measures 306.5 cm high and 1042 cm in length. This painting is similar to those found in Sanqing Hall of the Yongle Monastery in Shanxi province. The Sanqing Hall paintings are dated by an inscription to 1325 AD. Based on the strong stylistic affinities, this work can also be dated to the Yuan dynasty (AD 1279–1368).

Homage to the Highest Power is a popular theme in Daoist pictorial art. Daoist theology advocates the concept of Dao (the Way), a primeval force which gives form to all things in the universe. Homage to Dao is expected of all regular followers of Dao.

The wall painting is one of a pair from the Pingyang region of southern Shanxi province. This work was created as decoration for the west wall of a temple hall or worship space. It is symmetrically balanced leading your eye first to the central figures and then fanning out on either side. It shows a procession of heavenly beings moving at a leisurely pace to pay homage to the Supreme Power.

The procession is led by a fierce warrior, the Lord of the Southern Dipper (Sagittarius). He leads nine star spirits, female attendants with plant offerings, three important deities, and personifications of the twelve Earthly Branches. The three deities have been identified as Laozi (founder of Daoism) with the Jade Emperor and the Empress of Heaven, or Laozi with the Holy Ancestor and Ancestress of the Song Dynasty (AD 960-1279).


</doc>
<doc id="41071910" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071910" title="Polylux (TV program)">
Polylux (TV program)

Polylux, the self-appointed "last/worst on the first [channel]" (""Das Letzte im Ersten""), was a weekly half-hour German television program hosted by Tita von Hardenberg. It was produced by RBB for "Das Erste" and was broadcast in the timeslot on Thursdays at 11:15 CET.

The show, which was concerned with politics, culture, and social trends, offered a lively blend of documentary and satirical items. Typically it began with a satirical 'report' by Carsten von Ryssen related to a current matter of public concern. The show's essential hipness, which was underlined by Hardenberg's crisp announcements and the visual and thematic backdrop of the city of Berlin, infuses the subsequent documentary pieces with a certain "esprit". Thematically, their scope ran from coverage of political and social movements to current trends in underground and popular culture, whereby one piece was usually biographical in nature, setting it off from the more panoramic style of the rest of the show. Less serious segments often echoed the satire of the keynote feature. Regular items included the (usually biweekly) "Berlin for Beginners" (""Berlin für Anfänger"") and the show's end note, in which Manfred Dumke, an elderly pensioner, shared his curious insights on current affairs with the rest of Germany from the comfort of his own living room.

The feature "Berlin for Beginners" was in fact a vestige from the beginnings of the program in the mid 1990s when Polylux was still called "Tip TV" and was the televised version of the Berlin city magazine "Tip", then already hosted by Hardenberg, but on a regional TV station, FAB. When Tip was taken over in 1997, the new owners didn't want the show, but the ORB was interested in the format, and so it was taken on under the new title of Polylux. In 2000 the ARD adopted Polylux into its late night programming on "Das Erste", showing it at 04:00. However the youthful appeal of the program quickly earned it an earlier slot, which was on Mondays at midnight. It was then moved to a slot on Thursdays before it was canceled.

The RBB announced the cancellation of the show, effective by the end of 2008, on May 21 of the same year. The decision was reasoned with a lack of funding. The last show was aired on 18 December 2008. The show's offshoot web portal Polylog.tv was kept available for about two more years, but eventually the domain became expired and is unavailable as of 2016.


</doc>
<doc id="41071912" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071912" title="Katherena Vermette">
Katherena Vermette

Katherena Vermette is a Canadian writer, who won the Governor General's Award for English-language poetry in 2013 for her collection "North End Love Songs". Vermette is of Métis descent and originates from Winnipeg, Manitoba. She was a MFA student in creative writing at the University of British Columbia.

In addition to writing, Vermette advocates for the equality of Aboriginal peoples in Canada, vocalizing her dissatisfaction with the apathy shown towards Indigenous issues by the Canadian government and the Canadian media.

Katherena Vermette grew up in the North End of Winnipeg, Manitoba, a neighbourhood distinguished by a relatively high population of Indigenous people (approximately 25%), primarily First Nations and Métis people. Winnipeg, a city often singled out for its high rate of reported crimes, garners further negative outsider attention in its North End because of its dense number of reported crimes. In an interview with CBC Radio, Vermette described her childhood as not being "picturesque", in the usual sense of the word. For Vermette, growing up in the North End of Winnipeg meant that things were not always simple and, from a young age, she bore witness to the kind of injustice and prejudice that young people are typically spared from. An example of this injustice came when a 14-year-old Vermette lost her older brother, the just 18 year-old Donovan, who was missing for six months prior to being found dead. Vermette asserts that the combination of Donovan's young age, the circumstance at his having been at a bar with friends prior to his disappearance, and because he was Cree meant that his disappearance did not get adequate coverage by the media. Vermette cites the general apathy shown by the people of her community and the media surrounding her brother's disappearance as being the factor which instigated her own sense of the unfairness of the discrimination against the Aboriginal populations of Canada by non-Aboriginal Canadians, leading to her desire to activate for change.

Katherena Vermette is known primarily for her poetry, although she is also a writer of prose. From her viewpoint, Vermette's penchant for poetry stems from the fluidity and complexity of it as a medium; it combines singing, storytelling, and even painting, yet is something entirely different.

Vermette's first published volume of poetry, "North End Love Songs" functions as an ode to the place she grew up, Winnipeg's North End, and her intimate perspective on a place that is looked down upon for its high levels of reported crime. In the work, she describes her neighbourhood with respect to nature, highlighting the animals, foliage and rivers that coexist within it. In writing "North End Love Songs", Vermette sought to replace the prejudiced perceptions held by people outside of the North End with the beautiful way that she knows her community. The collection depicts a "young girl or woman struggling with identity and place," says Vermette. This conflict between a simultaneous deep sense of affection and of defiance to one's place of origin is precisely what constitutes the idea of home, in Vermette's view.

A poem commissioned by CBC Aboriginal, "Heart" similarly depicts the North End of Winnipeg from Vermette's personal point of view. Vermette aims to change the narrative from ""that" North End", known for being "broken", "tired", a "lost cause", and "beaten", to the way she knows it; rather, a place that is "healing", "working", "seeking [for a cause]", and "rising". The poem gets its name for being about the North End which, from Vermette's perspective, is the "heart of the Métis nation".

Vermette's children's picture book series "The Seven Teachings Stories" was published by Portage and Main Press in 2015. Illustrated by Irene Kuziw, the collection aims to present the Anishnaabe Teachings of the Seven Grandfathers in a way that is easily digestible for young people. The series depicts Indigenous children in a metropolitan context, fostering a sense of representation for historically and continually marginalized Indigenous groups, among those who they are, and have been, marginalized by. The series comprises seven individual volumes: "The Just Right Gift", "Singing Sisters", "The First Day", "Kode's Quest(ion)", "Amik Loves School", "Misaabe's Stories", and "What is Truth, Betsy?".

Her debut novel "The Break" was published in 2016, and was a shortlisted finalist for that year's Rogers Writers' Trust Fiction Prize and Governor General's Award for English-language fiction. In November 2017, it won the Burt Award for First Nations, Métis and Inuit Literature.

In 2015, she and Erika MacPherson co-directed the 20-minute National Film Board of Canada documentary "This River", about Canadian Indigenous families that have had to search for family members who have disappeared. Partly based on Vermette's own experience, the film received the 2016 Coup de coeur du jury award at Montreal's festival, and premiered in Vermette's hometown of Winnipeg on October 5, at the Winnipeg Art Gallery. It was named best short documentary at the 5th Canadian Screen Awards. Vermette and NFB producer Alicia Smith also created a related Instagram work, "What Brings Us Here", a companion piece to "The River", which offers portraits of volunteers behind the community-run Winnipeg search teams the Bear Clan and Drag the Red. Smith has stated that it was Vermette's "North End Love Songs" which helped draw her attention to the perspectives of indigenous youth from the North End and the experience of having missing family members.

She is a member of the Aboriginal Writers Collective of Manitoba, and edited the anthology "xxx ndn: love and lust in ndn country" in 2011.

In addition to her own publications, her work has also been published in the literary anthology "Manitowapow: Aboriginal Writings from the Land of Water".

In 2013, Vermette won the Governor General's Literary Award for poetry, for her collection "North End Love Songs", an accolade she dubbed a "goal" for poetry, as well as being "completely unexpected". In an interview with CBC Radio, Vermette discussed having considered not accepting the award, as a means of protesting the Canadian government’s treatment of the many missing and murdered Aboriginal women at the time, and disagreeing with the government’s policies in general. After consideration, Vermette decided to accept the award because the people who voted for "North End Love Songs" were a collection of her literary peers, making it a reflection of the Canadian poetry community, rather than the Canadian government.

In 2017, Vermette won the Amazon.ca First Novel Award for "The Break". Its French translation, "Ligne brisée", was defended by Naomi Fontaine in the 2018 edition of "Le Combat des livres", where it won the competition.

In addition to writing herself, Vermette also works with young people, ostracized for their circumstances and labelled as being "at risk". This workshop focuses on utilizing writing as a means of coping with the struggles associated with growing up marginalized because of that which makes one different from the majority. Vermette seeks to promote the development in young people's artistic voice, through the medium of poetry.

Vermette has described her writing as motivated by an activist spirit, particularly on First Nations issues.




</doc>
<doc id="41071930" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071930" title="Errors in early word use">
Errors in early word use

Errors in early word use or developmental errors are mistakes that children commonly commit when first learning language. Language acquisition is an impressive cognitive achievement attained by humans. In the first few years of life, children already demonstrate general knowledge and understanding of basic patterns in their language. They can extend words they hear to novel situations and apply grammatical rules in novel contexts. Although children possess an impressive ability to acquire and comprehend language early in life, they make many errors and mistakes as they enhance their knowledge and understanding of language. Three prominent errors in early word use are overgeneralization, overextension, and underextension.

The majority of words that children first learn are often used correctly. However, estimates indicate that up to one-third of the first fifty words that children learn are occasionally misused. Many studies indicate a curvilinear trend in naming errors and mistakes in initial word usage. In other words, early in language acquisition, children rarely make naming errors. However, as vocabulary enhances and language growth accelerates, the frequency of error increases. The amount of error decreases again as vocabulary continues to improve.

Scholars debate the underlying developmental causes and reasons for these mistakes. One theory, the semantic feature hypothesis, states that mistakes occur because children acquire the basic features of a word's meaning before learning its more specific aspects. For instance, the child may initially use the word "basketball" in reference to any round object, but then change its meaning to a round, orange, and grooved ball that bounces. Children may overextend the meaning of basketball to any round object until they learn the more specific aspects of the word's meaning. Other theories suggest that errors in early word use are the result of an inability on the part of the child to retrieve the correct word. Although the child might have accurately comprehended the word at one time, they are unable to actively retrieve the word or its meaning from their rapidly growing vocabulary.

Overregularization is defined as the "application of a principle of regular change to a word that changes irregularly." Examples of overregularization in verb use include using the word "comed" instead of "came". Examples in noun use include using the word "tooths" instead of "teeth". The error is usually seen after children have learned language rules because children apply learned rules to irregular words. Pertaining to the examples, the child using the word "comed" may have originally used "came" correctly. Once the child learned the '-ed' suffix rule that commonly forms the past tense; however, the child applied the rule to a verb whose correct grammatical form is irregular. The same applies to the "tooths" example, but the language rule is the addition of the suffix '-s' to form the plural noun. Overregularization research led by Daniel Slobin argues against B.F. Skinner's view of language development through reinforcement. It shows that children actively construct words' meanings and forms during the child's own development.

Differing views on the causes of overregularization and its extinction have been presented. Gary Marcus et al. published a study in which they monitored the speech of 83 children and recorded the spoken past tense of irregular verbs. They argue that children store irregular verbs in their memory and separately develop a rule for the production of the past tense form of any verb. To correctly use an irregular verb, children must retrieve that verb from their memory and block the rule; however, children's retrieval is often imperfect. They conclude the cause of overregularization with: "When retrieval fails, the rule is applied, and overregularization results." Their study's results found overregularization to be rare with a mean of 2.5% of the spoken irregular verbs, to be used for most irregular verbs from the ages of 2 years old until school ages, to be used less often with the irregular verbs that the child's parents speak more often, and to follow a pattern of "U-Shaped Development" in which the child uses the correct form of the irregular verb before overregularizing it. According to Marcus, overregularization ends when the child develops sufficiently strong memory traces to irregular forms.

Michael Maratsos disagrees with Marcus's causal claim. He argues that the overregularized verb form and the correct irregular form compete for usage, as "the two forms are both initially acceptable alternatives." The child increasingly chooses the irregular form, beating the overregularized one, because the child only experiences the irregular form. Maratsos argues that because children often use both the irregular and overregularized forms of the same verb, even in the same speech sample, the blocking theory proposed by Marcus proves problematic. If retrieval blocks the rule, it is unlikely that the rule would be 'un-blocked' soon after. He argues it seems more likely that environmental input and learning accounts for the gradual decline in overregularization. Moreover, the competition theory accounts for the highly varied rates of overregularization seen in Roger Brown's longitudinal study of Adam, Abe, and Sarah. Abe had an extremely high rate of overregularization, 24%, compared with Adam's rate of 3.6%, and Sarah's of 7.9%. Maratsos claims Abe was intellectually gifted, "likely the best overall learner and retriever of words." If Abe retrieved words well, then having such a high rate of overregularization is incompatible with Marcus's theory, which holds retrieval failure responsible for overregularization. Rather, Abe's bigger vocabulary exposed him to more regular words, resulting in a stronger competition between the irregular and overregularized forms and a higher potential rate of failure.

Overextension is an error in early word use in which a child uses a single word to label multiple different things in a manner that is inconsistent with adult usage. There are three types of overextensions. Categorical overinclusions involve using one word within a category to label a closely related referent that falls in the same category. Examples are seen in references to people (e.g. daddy for all men), animals (e.g. dog for horses and other quadrupeds), vehicles (e.g. truck for bus), foods (e.g. apple for oranges), and numerous other categories. Analogical overextensions involve inferring a similarity between a word's standard referent and its labeled referent in the absence of any actual relationship. Inferred similarities are most often perceptual, such as when a child uses ball to refer to all round objects (e.g. the moon). Predicate statements involve an attempt to comment on the relationship between an immediate referent and an absent entity. This is evident when a child uses doll to refer to an empty crib where the doll usually is located.

Like overgeneralizations, overextensions are believed to stem from limitations in vocabulary, which are the result of weak knowledge and/or immature retrieval ability. Clark and Clark (1977) have put forth a two-stage account of how overextensions develop. In the first stage, a child focuses on a particular feature of an object and refers to that feature using a single new word. Gradually, the child realizes that the word has a more specific meaning but does not know the other words that are required to be more precise. In the second stage, the child overextends the word, using it as a form of shorthand when referring to things that are similar to the standard referent. For example, the child uses dog to refer to any animal with similar features, namely four legs.

After increasing until a certain point, overextensions diminish over time as the child receives corrective feedback. This feedback most often comes from parents and teachers, who help the child revise his or her word meaning boundaries. However, parents can also unintentionally prolong the use of overextensions. Parents often respond to overextensions with acceptance, and the use of joint labeling (e.g. referring to both wolves and dogs as puppies) reinforces overextended language.

Underextension, which is roughly the opposite of overextension, occurs when a child acquires a word for a particular thing and fails to extend it to other objects in the same category, using the word in a highly restricted and individualistic way. For example, a child may learn the word flower in connection with a rose but fail to extend its meaning to other types of flowers. Although research more commonly addresses the underextension of nouns, this error can also apply to verbs. For example, a child might underextend the verb sit and only use it with reference to the family dog's sitting but no one else's.

Underextension is generally thought to be less common, or perhaps just less noticeable, than overextension, but according to Margaret Harris, recent research shows an increasing number of reports of underextension. According to Harris, there are two different kinds of underextension. The first is "context bound", in which a child produces a word only in a limited and specific context. An example is when a child only uses the word "duck" when hitting a toy duck off the bathtub and "chuff-chuff" only when pushing a toy train.

The second type of early underextension involves restricting a word to a particular referent instead of a particular situation. This kind of underextension is not context-bound but contextually flexible, and suggests that children are using words in a genuinely referential way. Harris mentions examples of this type of underextension from her own research, such as the use of the word clock only to refer to wall clocks and light only to refer to ceiling lights with a shade.

As is the case with overextension, parents can contribute to a child's prolonged underextension of words. When speaking to their children, parents may not give every instance of a category of objects its correct name, especially in unusual situations, triggering word errors. In a study by Thomas G. White, preschool children ages 3 to 5 did not apply labels (e.g., food) to category instances that were rated as atypical by adults. The study also showed that mothers used superordinate terms much less in atypical instances than typical instances. This suggests that the labels children hear their parents apply may affect underextension. However, as children grow older, their vocabularies grow and instances of underextension decline.


</doc>
<doc id="41071933" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071933" title="Pueblo a Pueblo">
Pueblo a Pueblo

Pueblo a Pueblo is a 501(c)(3) organization that provides programs in health, education, and food security in rural communities in Latin America, especially Mayan communities in Guatemala.

Pueblo a Pueblo is a 501(c) organization launched in 2001 to provide educational opportunities for children in rural Mayan communities in Guatemala.

Pueblo a Pueblo received international mention in 2005 for relief efforts in the aftermath of Hurricane Stan in which a mudslide swept through Panabaj, leaving over 200 people dead and 300 missing. Six months prior, Pueblo a Pueblo had facilitated refurbishment, reopening and staffing of a local hospital closed for 15 years because of the civil war. Pueblo a Pueblo helped establish a local firefighting group to drive emergency relief, and provided education scholarships for students in families that relocated to Chuk Muk, a settlement east of Santiago along the shore of Lake Atitlán.

Since 2005, Pueblo a Pueblo has started programs in health, education, and food security for communities in rural Guatemala like Panabaj. It focuses on coffee communities and works mostly out of primary schools.

In 2013, Pueblo a Pueblo was awarded the Specialty Coffee Association of America's Sustainability Award for its Organic School Garden Project, which introduces primary school children to the basics of nutrition and sustainable agriculture.

Pueblo a Pueblo has been featured in magazines such as Fresh Cup, Coffee Talk, The Specialty Coffee Chronicle and Qué Pasa.

In 2012–13 Pueblo a Pueblo was chosen by Catalogue for Philanthropy as one of 24 high-impact non-profit organizations in the greater Washington, DC area.

Pueblo a Pueblo is funded by Green Mountain Coffee Roasters, the Research Triangle Institute, and by a number of small foundations and individuals.



</doc>
<doc id="41071951" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071951" title="Lulaman">
Lulaman

Lulaman (, also Romanized as Lūlamān) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 551, in 151 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071953" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071953" title="Mavardian">
Mavardian

Mavardian (, also Romanized as Māvardīān) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 551, in 138 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071954" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071954" title="Nasrollahabad, Fuman">
Nasrollahabad, Fuman

Nasrollahabad (, also Romanized as Naşrollāhābād) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 81, in 18 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071955" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071955" title="Pamesar">
Pamesar

Pamesar (, also Romanized as Pāmesār and Pāmsār) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 328, in 90 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071958" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071958" title="Qassabali Sara">
Qassabali Sara

Qassabali Sara (, also Romanized as Qaşşāb‘alī Sarā) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 347, in 91 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071960" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071960" title="Siah Piran-e Kashani">
Siah Piran-e Kashani

Siah Piran-e Kashani (, also Romanized as Sīāh Pīrān-e Kāshānī; also known as Sīāh Pīrān) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 400, in 102 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071961" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071961" title="Siah Piran-e Kasmai">
Siah Piran-e Kasmai

Siah Piran-e Kasmai (, also Romanized as Sīāh Pīrān-e Kasmā’ī; also known as Shālgā and Shālkā) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 212, in 61 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071965" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071965" title="Shir-e Tar">
Shir-e Tar

Shir-e Tar (, also Romanized as Shīr-e Tar) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 178, in 60 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071967" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071967" title="Shanbeh Bazar">
Shanbeh Bazar

Shanbeh Bazar (, also Romanized as Shanbeh Bāzār; also known as Sabzqabā) is a village in Lulaman Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 697, in 188 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071968" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071968" title="Ala Sar">
Ala Sar

Ala Sar (, also Romanized as Ālā Sar) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 276, in 94 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071973" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071973" title="Chiran">
Chiran

Chiran (, also Romanized as Chīrān) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,204, in 283 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071974" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071974" title="Giga Sar">
Giga Sar

Giga Sar (, also Romanized as Gīgā Sar, Gīgāsar) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 909, in 259 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071975" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071975" title="Gol Afzan">
Gol Afzan

Gol Afzan (, also romanized as Gol Afzān; also known as Kilavzan) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 798, in 214 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071978" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071978" title="Gorbeh Kucheh">
Gorbeh Kucheh

Gorbeh Kucheh (, also Romanized as Gorbeh Kūcheh; also known as Gorbeh Kūjeh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 105, in 25 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071980" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071980" title="Gushlavandan">
Gushlavandan

Gushlavandan (, also Romanized as Gūshlavandān; also known as Gūshī Lavandān, Koshlyavandan, and Kūshalvandān) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 940, in 242 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41071988" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071988" title="Brewbaker v. Regents">
Brewbaker v. Regents

Brewbaker v. Regents, - N.W.2d - (Iowa 2013), was a unanimous decision of the Iowa Court of Appeals dated October 23, 2013, that held it does not violate double jeopardy or separation of powers for an administrative agency to modify the terms of probation to deny State educational services following a criminal judgement hearing if the modification protects "the integrity of the community".

Double Jeopardy, Separation of Powers, Free Speech, Due Process, Equal Protection, and Abuse of Discretion

Brewbaker was charged with simple misdemeanor annoying speech. Under Iowa Court Rule 2.67(6) Brewbaker was only allowed a jury of six members. Upon a guilty verdict Brewbaker was fined $65 in the District Court for Story County Iowa on an annoying speech conviction in November 2009 and placed on one year of probation. Brewbaker applied for discretionary appeal to the Iowa Supreme Court on grounds that the term 'annoying' was void for vagueness, see Coates v. Cincinnati, but the application was denied.

Subsequently the Iowa Board of Regents in a public hearing where Brewbaker was not allowed to speak in his defense, upheld a modification to Brewbaker's probation suspending him from State educational services at Iowa State University for the same transaction as the simple misdemeanor. Brewbaker's application for review of agency action to the District Court for Polk County was denied.

Brewbaker applied for further review on November 12, 2013 noting Vogel gave a false account of the facts in Kocher to frame it as controlling instead of Dressler where the conviction preceded administrative sanctions.

The Iowa Supreme Court denied further review. On March 3, 2014 Iowa Court of Appeals Chief Judge Danielson entered an order for publication. Publication, if accepted by the Iowa Supreme Court, would also overturn Klouda v. Sixth Judicial Dist. Dept. giving the Iowa executive branch new powers to independently modify conditions of probation set by criminal courts.



</doc>
<doc id="41071995" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41071995" title="Siah Piran">
Siah Piran

Siah Piran () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41072015" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072015" title="Shalka, Iran">
Shalka, Iran

Shalka (, also Romanized as Shālkā) is a village in Tulem Rural District, Tulem District, Sowme'eh Sara County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 30, in 5 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072023" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072023" title="Kalyi Jag">
Kalyi Jag

Kalyi Jag may refer to:



</doc>
<doc id="41072030" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072030" title="Piccadilly Circus (song)">
Piccadilly Circus (song)

"Piccadilly Circus" is a song written by Lars Andersson and Bruno Glenmark, and performed by Pernilla Wahlgren at Melodifestivalen 1985, where the song ended up fourth behind "Bra vibrationer", performed by Kikki Danielsson. The single record peaked at second place at the Swedish singles chart. On 9 March 1985 the song entered Trackslistan. The song lyrics describe a love meeting at Piccadilly Circus. 

Wahlgren entered stage with the brothers Vito and Emilio Ingrosso as dancers. Wahlgren was later criticised for wearing an Iron Cross-like item on stage, which was referred to as Nazi propaganda.

A Framåt fredag parody version was called "Inga djur på cirkus", describing Miljöpartiet in 2005 asking for stop using animals at circus shows in Sweden.



</doc>
<doc id="41072075" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072075" title="The Colourist">
The Colourist

Castilla and Tuttle met while performing in the band Paper Thin Walls, who rose to notoriety after being chosen to play the 2007 Led Zeppelin reunion concert in London. The name "The Colourist" was borne out of a conversation with a friend of the band—a film student who was working with a film colorist at the time. Because the name was not already used, the ensemble decided to use the British/Canadian spelling for aesthetic and availability reasons.

In 2013, the band's debut single "Little Games" becoming the No.1 song on Hype Machine.

After years of performing concerts in their home town, the ensemble captured the eyes of major record labels during their residency at Los Angeles' Bootleg Theater. In July 2012, the band signed a record contract with Universal Republic Records.

In late 2012 and early 2013, the ensemble spent five months in Eagle Rock, California recording fourteen songs with producer Carlos De La Garza, twelve of which went on the full length studio album. Weeks after recording was completed, the quartet performed at Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival in Indio, California. On August 20, 2013, the band released their debut EP "Lido".

On March 25, 2014, The Colourist also released their debut studio album, "The Colourist".

In October 2014, the ensemble released their first remix EP entitled "Inversions".

On March 5, 2015, radio station KSRY FM in Los Angeles, California published the single "When I'm Away". Laura Neumayer of The Eagle Online describes the song as "complete with a groovy guitar riff reminiscent of The Lighthouse and the Whaler’s “Venice”".

On May 25, 2015, "When I'm Away" was featured as the theme song on a television commercial for Hulu. At that time, it was announced that the tune will be featured on "Will You Wait for Me", the third EP from the ensemble.

On July 23, 2015, "Romancing" was released streaming on several outlets, including indieshuffle.com, as the second single from the EP.

On November 9, 2015, the group announced via their Facebook page that they are working on new music, with a subsequent post early the next year that Johannsen and the ensemble would be parting ways.

On December 18, 2016, the group announced Tuttle's departure from the band.

In 2013, The Colourist starred in a national commercial and ad campaign for Nokia, which aired on primetime television for 3 months. The commercial featured the band playing their single "Little Games" to a packed audience at LA's Opheum Theater.

In March 2014, the band's sold-out performance at The Troubadour in LA was featured on "Last Call With Carson Daly"

On May 21, 2014, The Colourist appeared on "The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson" to perform their second single "We Won't Go Home"

In October 2015, it was announced that "Little Games" would be featured on "Guitar Hero Live", by Activision. It also featured with St. Lucia remix version in EA Sports football video game, "FIFA 14".



In October 2015, Tuttle recorded the song "Back 2 U" with Raeko (the alter ego of Jason Suwito from Sir Sly).


</doc>
<doc id="41072078" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072078" title="Hottonia">
Hottonia

Hottonia is a genus of aquatic flowering plant in the family Primulaceae. It comprises two species, both of which are known by the common name featherfoil:


The two species differ markedly in the size of the flowers, which are showy in the Eurasian "H. palustris" but much smaller in the North American "H. inflata", and in the thickness of the stem, which is swollen in "H. inflata" but not in "H. palustris". The two species also differ in their breeding system: "H. palustris" is heterostylous, whereas "H. inflata" is not.

Carl Linnaeus named the genus in his 1753 book "Species Plantarum", commemorating the botanist Peter Hotton.


</doc>
<doc id="41072084" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072084" title="Khoda Shahr">
Khoda Shahr

Khoda Shahr (, also Romanized as Khodā Shahr; also known as Khodashekhr) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 223, in 61 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072085" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072085" title="Halqeh Sara">
Halqeh Sara

Halqeh Sara (, also Romanized as Ḩalqeh Sarā; also known as Ḩalqeh Sar and Khalgeser) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 139, in 39 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072087" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072087" title="Khorram Bisheh">
Khorram Bisheh

Khorram Bisheh (, also Romanized as Khorram Bīsheh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 303, in 91 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072089" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072089" title="Khesmakh">
Khesmakh

Khesmakh (, also Romanized as Khasmakh; also known as Khesmah) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 1,142, in 285 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072091" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072091" title="Khatib Gurab">
Khatib Gurab

Khatib Gurab (, also Romanized as Khaţīb Gūrāb) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 109, in 28 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072095" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072095" title="Kohneh Gurab, Fuman">
Kohneh Gurab, Fuman

Kohneh Gurab (, also Romanized as Kohneh Gūrāb) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 675, in 185 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072097" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072097" title="Kiaban">
Kiaban

Kiaban (, also Romanized as Kīābān) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 505, in 133 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072098" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072098" title="Ladmokh, Fuman">
Ladmokh, Fuman

Ladmokh (, also Romanized as Lādmokh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 228, in 71 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072099" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072099" title="Maaf Mahalleh">
Maaf Mahalleh

Maaf Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Ma‘āf Maḩalleh; also known as Mīr Maḩalleh and Mīr Maḩalleh va Mo‘āf Maḩalleh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 277, in 83 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072100" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072100" title="Makhsar">
Makhsar

Makhsar (, also Romanized as Makhser and Mokhsar; also known as Mahser) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 189, in 56 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072102" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072102" title="Mir Mahalleh, Fuman">
Mir Mahalleh, Fuman

Mir Mahalleh (, also Romanized as Mīr Maḩalleh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 200, in 49 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072103" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072103" title="Molla Kuh">
Molla Kuh

Molla Kuh (, also Romanized as Mollā Kūh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 41, in 9 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072123" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072123" title="Thomas Dickenson">
Thomas Dickenson

Thomas Dickenson (Dickinson), a merchant of York, was an adherent of the Parliamentary cause during the English Civil War. He was also a sheriff, alderman, and twice Lord Mayor of York and a Member of Parliament for York during the Protectorate.

Dickenson was Sheriff of York in 1640, twice Lord Mayor of York, in 1647 and again in 1657 the year he was knighted by the Lord Protector Oliver Cromwell. He was a Member of Parliament for York in the First, Second and Third Protectorate parliaments. 

Although a strong partisan of Cromwell, Dickenson was probably moderate in his religious views; and, according to the testimony of a contemporary, more Episcopalian than Presbyterian or Independent. Dickenson was a patron of literary men. John Bulmer, M.D., dedicated to him his "Anthropometamorphosis"; or, "Man Transformed", 4to, 1653; and the Rev. Josiah Hunter dedicated to him a Sermon on "Philip" iv. 5, 4to, 1656.



</doc>
<doc id="41072129" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072129" title="Ladmokh">
Ladmokh

Ladmokh or Ladmakh () may refer to:


</doc>
<doc id="41072132" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072132" title="Gods in the Spirit">
Gods in the Spirit

Gods in the Spirit is a collaborative EP by Los Angeles rapper Blu and Virginia record producer Nottz, released on October 22, 2013 through Coalmine Records. The six-track record was entirely produced by Nottz and includes guest appearances from Nitty Scott, MC, Aloe Blacc, ANTHM and Homeboy Sandman among others. The lead single, "Boyz II Men," was leaked on October 2, 2013. 

HipHopDX's Dean Mayorga gave the album a three out of five, saying "While it's enjoyable to varying degrees, "Gods in the Spirit" is a misleading name for a project with little ambitions beyond being a good listen."


</doc>
<doc id="41072162" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072162" title="List of fiction set in Nottingham">
List of fiction set in Nottingham

List of fiction set in Nottingham, England and district

The list omits works concerned with Robin Hood.

A number of these plays were produced locally for Nottingham audiences and will therefore have had very limited runs. Details of the first production are added to entries for such plays, if available.


See also listing of films set in Nottingham.




</doc>
<doc id="41072172" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072172" title="Now Deh, Fuman">
Now Deh, Fuman

Now Deh (; also known as Nuude) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 420, in 113 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072173" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072173" title="Neqareh Chiyan">
Neqareh Chiyan

Neqareh Chiyan (, also Romanized as Neqāreh Chīyān) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 25, in 8 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072174" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072174" title="Pish Deh">
Pish Deh

Pish Deh (, also Romanized as Pīsh Deh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 272, in 70 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072175" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072175" title="Rud Pish">
Rud Pish

Rud Pish (, also Romanized as Rūd Pīsh) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 2,274, in 588 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072178" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072178" title="Send-e Bala">
Send-e Bala

Send-e Bala (, also Romanized as Send-e Bālā) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 952, in 255 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072181" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072181" title="Send-e Pain">
Send-e Pain

Send-e Pain (, also Romanized as Send-e Pā’īn and Send-e Pāeen) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 338, in 87 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072184" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072184" title="Sang Bijar">
Sang Bijar

Sang Bijar (, also Romanized as Sang Bījār; also known as Sangabadzhar, Sangabajar, and Sang Bejār) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 805, in 212 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072185" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072185" title="Shapul Konar">
Shapul Konar

Shapul Konar (, also Romanized as Shapūl Konār) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 136, in 33 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072187" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072187" title="Tazehabad-e Kalashem">
Tazehabad-e Kalashem

Tazehabad-e Kalashem (, also Romanized as Tāzehābād-e Kalāshem) is a village in Rud Pish Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its population was 512, in 149 families.


</doc>
<doc id="41072191" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072191" title="Gerald Hocker">
Gerald Hocker

Gerald W. Hocker (born January 9, 1948) is an American politician and a Republican member of the Delaware Senate since 2013. Hocker previously served in the Delaware House of Representatives from 2003 to 2013. He earned a BS in business administration from the University of Delaware. Hocker was chosen as the Senate minority leader in the 150th Delaware General Assembly.




</doc>
<doc id="41072204" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072204" title="Edward Hines Jr. Veterans Administration Hospital">
Edward Hines Jr. Veterans Administration Hospital

The Edward Hines Jr. Veterans Administration Hospital is a second-generation Veterans Health Administration hospital in Hines, Illinois, United States. It currently encompasses on its campus and leases an additional to the Loyola University Medical Center.

Construction began in 1918 on land donated by the Edward Hines Lumber Company that was originally Speedway Park, a board track racecourse. Originally intended to house casualties from World War I, Hines wanted the building to serve as a hospital after the war. Hines was successful in lobbying the United States Congress to take over the facility as a veterans hospital in 1920. Since the first patient was admitted on August 8, 1921, Hines has been a leader in the Veterans Affairs network and has partnered with five medical schools to develop a comprehensive residency program. In 2013, of the campus, including the Old Airmail and Postal Service Buildings from the Maywood Air Mail Field, were listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a historic district.

The history of the property in Hines, Illinois began in 1835, when the land was sold to Frederick Bronson by the United States government. The land was used for farming until 1914, when the Speedway Park Association purchased the lot to develop a race track. The organization built a oval wooden track on the land and held races starting in June 1915. The track was one of the longest board tracks in the United States. The course was host to a number of national and international racing competitions featuring competitors such as Barney Oldfield, Ralph DePalma, Louis Chevrolet, and Dario Resta. The track was initially very successful, attracting as many as 45,000 spectators. However, the entry of the United States into World War I in April 1917 doomed the financial viability of the racetrack. It was one of the first board tracks to close; most board tracks in the United States were closed by the end of the 1930s.

The course was purchased in December 1917 by the Edward Hines Lumber Company on behalf of Edward Hines Sr. Once the United States entered World War I, the City of Chicago sought a site for a temporary military hospital. Edward Hines Jr. was killed on the front lines in France in the opening months of American involvement in the war. In his memory, Hines Sr. offered to donate his new property as a potential site of the Chicago facility; it was selected in September 1918. The Field Museum of Natural History was also considered as a location for the facility. However, it was feared that the conversion of the museum to a medical facility would prove too costly. The fact that Hines' hospital was built to be a hospital also played in his favor. Hines intended to build a fireproof building that could house casualties during the war and then operate as a public hospital after the war. Schmidt, Garden and Martin and H. B. Wheelock were awarded the commission to design the facility, and the Shank Company was tasked with its construction.

When World War I ended in November 1918, the agreement with Hines was terminated as there was no longer a need to house casualties. The hospital stood partially constructed for the next two years as Hines led an effort to lobby Congress to have the building taken over by the United States Public Health Service. Secretary of the Treasury Carter Glass disapproved of the plan because no official contract was signed between Hines and the federal government. However, an investigation by the United States Department of War found sufficient evidence of a verbal agreement between the two parties. With help from Congressmen Adolph J. Sabath, James Robert Mann, Martin B. Madden, and Carl R. Chindblom, a Senate vote on the matter passed 33 to 27. $3.4 million was appropriated to the project under the condition that Hines provided an additional $1.6 million. The transfer was approved in March 1920 and construction began again.

The campus was originally known as U.S. Public Health Service Hospital Number 76, and was popularly referred to as Speedway Hospital or Broadview Hospital. In honor of his contribution to see the facility completed, on October 24, 1921, President Warren G. Harding declared that the facility was to be renamed to honor Hines' son. It was the first American veterans hospital to be named after a person. The first patient was admitted on August 8, 1921. A dedication ceremony was held on November 6, 1921 led by Marshal of France Ferdinand Foch and Senator Medill McCormick.

The Main Infirmary Building was capable of housing a thousand beds, and by February 1922, was already near capacity. The unique building was only wide, but long so that every room could have sunlight. It was also the largest fireproof hospital in the nation, and featured many state-of-the-art technologies such as an electric call system and an x-ray department. Seven other buildings were erected during initial construction in 1921: the Morgue and Utility Shops; the Recreational and Library Building; the Kitchen, Chapel, and Social Service Building; the Power House; the Subsistence Building; the Garage; and the Supply Depot. The facility was transferred from the Public Health Service to the recently created Veterans Bureau in April 1922. By 1925, the campus saw over 3,100 admissions per year.

In May 1928, President Calvin Coolidge approved a $15 million appropriation to improve veterans health facilities, including $1.1 million for Hines. With this money, the hospital was able to renovate its staff quarters into tuberculosis and behavioral health wards. They also built a new administration building and employee housing, thus opening more space in the Main Infirmary Building, increasing its capacity to 1,600. It was also at this point that the hospital grounds were extensively landscaped with a sunken garden, a new street lighting system, a new east entrance, and new drives. The landscaping is attributed to Jens Jensen, although it is uncertain if Jensen's design was ever implemented. On July 26, 1931, the Doughboy Fountain was donated by the Cook County American Legion Auxiliary in honor of World War I veterans. A memorial to Medal of Honor recipient George Dilboy, who was killed in the war, was unveiled in 1942. Hines Hospital became the national leader in surgery for veterans facilities, performing over 14,600 procedures per year by 1935.

During World War II, a new eighty-three building complex was built adjacent to the property with a $4.5 million appropriation. Known as the Vaughan General Hospital, it was built on the grounds of the former Maywood Air Mail Field to serve the needs of the Army. The first patient was admitted on August 1, 1944. The new campus was added to the Hines complex after the war in April 1946, increasing the capacity of Hines from 1,600 to 3,253 beds. The new campus also afforded Hines the opportunity to manufacture some of its medical equipment and establish a medical research division. In 1946, Hines partnered with five medical schools to become a training center.

In 1962, the Department of Health, Education, and Welfare transferred of the Hines property to the State of Illinois Department of Mental Health so that they could build a new mental health facility. The John J. Madden Clinic took over mental health operations from the hospital, allowing Hines to re-purpose 280 beds to intensive care. Also that year, of the Vaughan campus were leased to Loyola University Chicago Stritch School of Medicine to build a new medical school. The 451-bed Foster G. McGraw Hospital, later known as the Loyola University Medical Center, opened on May 29, 1969. This partnership allowed Hines to have one of the most comprehensive residency programs among veterans hospitals.

The Vietnam War brought another influx of injured veterans to Hines. In response, a $32 million, 1,200 bed hospital was built from 1966 to 1970 to replace the Main Infirmary Building. A 120-bed Nursing Home Care Unite was completed in 1982 to treat aging veterans of the two World Wars. By the early 1990s, the complex had sixty-two buildings, including one of five Blind Rehabilitation Centers in the Veterans Affairs network. A fifteen-bedroom Ronald McDonald House was added in 1994. By 1996, the facility had serviced 900,000 patients. The most recent developments are a new Blind Rehabilitation Center and Spinal Cord Injury Center in 2005.

The historic value of the campus was recognized in 1980, when the Old Airmail and Postal Service Buildings were determined to be eligible for the National Register of Historic Places by the National Park Service. The buildings may be the oldest mail airport structures in the United States, serving the Postal Service between 1922 and 1927. Charles Lindbergh piloted the maiden air mail flight between Chicago and St. Louis, Missouri on April 15, 1926. Today, they house a garage and an inflammable storage building. Two years later, the VA hospital was also determined eligible for listing, although neither property was listed in the following decades. These two entities were combined into the Edward Hines Jr. Veterans Administration Hospital Historic District, which was listed on October 9, 2013. The district includes twenty-six of the early buildings on campus.



</doc>
<doc id="41072208" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072208" title="Ena Saha">
Ena Saha

Ena Jennifer Saha is an Indian film and television actress who predominantly appears in Bengali films and television shows.

She has appeared in a number of Bengali TV serials, including "Raat Bhor Bristi", "Bou Katha Kau" and "Bandhan".

She has appeared in several commercial and art-house Bengali films and a Malayalam film. Her first film is the Bengali film "Ami Aadu", directed by Somnath Gupta. In the film "" she played the role of Nishi. The film was well received by critics in several film festivals. In 2013, she appeared in the Malayalam film "Neelakasham Pachakadal Chuvanna Bhoomi", where she played the character Gauri.



</doc>
<doc id="41072220" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072220" title="Jag vill om du vågar">
Jag vill om du vågar

Jag vill om du vågar is a song written by Pontus Assarsson, Jörgen Ringqvist (lyrics and music) and Daniel Barkman (lyrics), and performed by Pernilla Wahlgren at Melodifestivalen 2010. Participating in the fourth semifinal in Malmö, it ended third, reaching "Andra chansen". Once there it defeated the songs by Pain of Salvation and Crucified Barbara, and reached the final in the Stockholm Globe Arena on 13 March 2010. Once there it ended on a 10th and final place, scoring 12 points.



</doc>
<doc id="41072227" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072227" title="Machakh">
Machakh

Machakh (; ) is a rural locality (a "selo"), and one of two settlements in Babushkinsky Rural Okrug of Verkhoyansky District in the Sakha Republic, Russia, in addition to Boronuk, the administrative center of the Rural Okrug. It is located from Batagay, the administrative center of the district and from Boronuk. Its population as of the 2010 Census was 66; down from 108 recorded in the 2002 Census.



</doc>
<doc id="41072229" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072229" title="Elysius ochrota">
Elysius ochrota

Elysius ochrota is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Bolivia.


</doc>
<doc id="41072230" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072230" title="Coolrain">
Coolrain

Coolrain, (), is a village in County Laois, Ireland. It is situated near the Slieve Bloom Mountains. The nearest town is Mountrath, and the closest village is Camross. 

In 1828 Coolrain was spelt Coleraine and was in the parish of Offerlane, Queens County (which is now called County Laois) 

In 1855 Coolrain had a corn and flour mill, a dispensary and police barracks.

In 1901 the population of Coolrain's townlands, was 304, and by 1911 the population was 364.
The townlands of Coolrain in 1901 and 1911 were: Anatrim/Anatrin, Coolnagour (1828 Colenagour), Coolrain (1828 Coleraine), Derryduff, Derrynaseera (1828 Dernaserea), Glebe, Larch Hill, Laurel Hill, Shanderry, Tinnakill (1828 Tennakilly).


</doc>
<doc id="41072236" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072236" title="List of doping cases in sport (B)">
List of doping cases in sport (B)

This is a sub-list from List of doping cases in sport representing a full list of surnames starting with "B".


</doc>
<doc id="41072254" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072254" title="Elysius pretiosa">
Elysius pretiosa

Elysius pretiosa is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Paraguay.


</doc>
<doc id="41072264" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072264" title="Polylux (overhead projector)">
Polylux (overhead projector)

The Polylux was an overhead projector produced in the German Democratic Republic. It also functioned as a generic name for overhead projectors in the GDR. 

The Polylux was produced in the VEB (Volkseigener Betrieb: people’s enterprise) Phylatex-Physikgeräte DDR, in Frankenberg near Chemnitz (then known as Karl-Marx-Stadt). It was, amongst others, widespread in educational institutions in the GDR. After 2004, Polylux was a registered trademark of the company Polytechnik Frankenberg GmbH, which as a successor firm of the original Polylux producer continued to produce the device. Until the Wende in 1989, 27,000 devices were produced on average each year, and were also exported to the Soviet Union. In the year 2004, 6,000 devices were still being produced.

In 2006, the enterprise closed down.

The word Polylux (from Greek and Latin, meaning "much light") originates with Erich Schöpe, a physicist and former director of the Polylux manufacturer. Today, the word enjoys cult status as a typical GDR word and is still widespread in everyday language of the East German states.

A television show produced by Ostdeutscher Rundfunk Brandenburg (now Rundfunk Berlin-Brandenburg) was named after the Polylux with reference to the "enlightening" function of the device.

The body of the Polylux consisted of plastic and contained a ventilator with delayed shutdown in order to avoid a heat build-up. The light source was a halogen light bulb for a standard line voltage. It contained a switch for two different light intensity levels.

Originally, the lenses of the device were made out of glass. In order to reduce the weight, lenses made of plastic were later used. In particular, the fresnel lens with its large surface area, on which transparencies were placed, was made out of plastic. 


</doc>
<doc id="41072272" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072272" title="Elysius rabusculum">
Elysius rabusculum

Elysius rabusculum is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="41072273" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072273" title="Shahrud, Gilan">
Shahrud, Gilan

Shahrud (, also Romanized as Shāhrūd) is a village in Gurab Pas Rural District, in the Central District of Fuman County, Gilan Province, Iran. At the 2006 census, its existence was noted, but its population was not reported.


</doc>
<doc id="41072277" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072277" title="Neil Ogden">
Neil Ogden

Neil Ogden (born 29 November 1975 in Higher End, England) is an English former footballer.

Ogden was an apprentice at hometown club Wigan Athletic F.C. and made his Football League debut at Vetch Field on the 4 May 1993. After three seasons Ogden briefly played in the Football Conference and the Premier Soccer League before moving to Sligo Rovers in the summer of 1997 under Nicky Reid. He made his League of Ireland debut on the 30 August 1997. During that 1997-98 League of Ireland season, Sligo won their first ever FAI League Cup.

Ogden signed to the Shelbourne F.C. for the 1999-2000 League of Ireland season under Dermot Keely, and made his debut in the 1999 UEFA Intertoto Cup tie against Neuchâtel Xamax at the Stade de la Maladière (1924). However, after only 5 league appearances he moved to Galway United in November 1999. In January 2000, the Tribesmen knocked the defending League champions out of the FAI Cup and beat Sligo 5-0 with Ogden scoring.

Ogden signed for Portadown F.C. in the summer of 2000 and in his second season won the IFA Premiership. He made two appearances in the 2002–03 UEFA Champions League against FC Belshina Bobruisk At the end of the 2002–03 Irish League season, Ogden signed to Larne F.C.. Under Jimmy McGeough, Larne reached the 2004–05 Irish Cup Final, where Ogden opened the scoring in a 5-1 loss. In November 2005, Ogden's contract at Inver Park was terminated by Kenny Shiels.



</doc>
<doc id="41072283" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072283" title="Amastus rubicundus">
Amastus rubicundus

Amastus rubicundus is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="41072320" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072320" title="Crown of Creation Meets Friends">
Crown of Creation Meets Friends

Crown of Creation Meets Friends is the second album released by West German synthpop/pop group Crown of Creation. It was released in January 1998, and produced by Matthias Dorn and Philippe Beaucamp.







</doc>
<doc id="41072331" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072331" title="Nabhani dynasty">
Nabhani dynasty

The Nabhani dynasty (or Nabahina dynasty; "ʾusrat banī nabhān"), members of the Bani Nabhan family, were rulers of Oman from 1154 until 1624, when the Yaruba dynasty took power. 
One of their most visible legacies is the Bahla Fort, a large complex of mud brick buildings on stone foundations which is registered as a UNESCO world heritage site.

After the early days of Islam, the tribes in the interior of Oman were led by Imams, who held both spiritual and temporal power. 
The Yahmad branch of Azd tribes gained power in the 9th century.
They established a system where the "ulama" of the Banu Sama, the largest of the Nizari tribes of the interior, would select the Imam.
The authority of the Imams declined due to power struggles.
During the 11th and 12th centuries Oman was controlled by the Seljuk Empire. They were expelled in 1154, when the Nabhani dynasty came to power.

The best quality frankincense, a valuable product in the Middle Ages, comes from Dhofar in the interior of southern Oman.
The Banu Nabhan controlled the trade in frankincense on the overland route via Sohar to the Yabrin oasis, and then north to Bahrain, Baghdad and Damascus.
Muhammed al-Fallah of the Banu Nabhan emerged as a powerful leader in 1151 and had taken control by 1154. 
He lived until 1176.

The Nabhanis ruled as "muluk", or kings, while the Imams were reduced to largely symbolic significance. 
The Imams lost moral authority since the title came to be treated as the property of the dominant tribe at any time.
According to the historian Sirhan bin Said there were no records of Imams from 1153, when Imam Musa bin Abu Ja'afar died, until 1406, when Imam Hubaise bin Muhammad died.

The Nabhani made their capital at Bahla.
The Bahla Fort is called Hisn Tammah, and is said to take its name from an Iranian ruler of the town before the Islamic period.
There are probably some pre-Islamic structural elements, but most of the buildings date from the Nabhani period.
Buildings include the Friday Mosque, which probably dates from the 14th century and has an elegantly carved mihrab.
The most recent buildings appear to date to the start of the 16th century.
The fort testifies to the power of the Nabhani in their heyday.

The period is poorly documented. It seems that at times the Nabhani only controlled part of the interior of the country, and at other times also ruled over the coastal lands.
Oman suffered from Persian invasions, and at one point the coast was controlled by the Kingdom of Hormuz.
The Banu Nabhan were dominant over the other tribes until the end of the 15th century.
There are records of personal visits by Nabhani rulers to Ethiopia, Zanzibar, the Lamu Archipelago of what is now Kenya, and Persia.
The al-Nabhani dynasty of Pate Island in the Lamu Archipelago claimed descent from the Omani dynasty.
Aqueel Bin Nabhan

Oman had an elected Imam and a hereditary Nabhani sultan from the 15th century into the 17th century, with the Imams gaining the ascendancy.
The Nabhani ruler Suleiman bin Mudhafar was removed by the Imam Muhammad ibn Ismail (1500–29).
However, the Nabhanis clung to power in the Bahla region.
In 1507 the Portuguese captured the coastal city of Muscat, and gradually extended their control along the coast up to Sohar in the north and down to Sur in the southeast.
Omani histories record that the Bahla fort was destroyed in the early 17th century shortly before the Ya'aruba dynasty took control of Oman, although it is possible that parts of the old structure remained and were used as the basis for later construction.
In 1624 Nasir bin Murshid of the Ya'aruba took over control of Oman.

The Nabahina retained power at the beginning of the Ya'rubi state and they treated Jabal al-akhdar (The Green Mountains located in the interior of Oman)as an emirate.
Thus, the Nabahinah transferred their loyalties from the Banu Rawahah to the Banu Riyam at the beginning of the seventeenth century. 
They became the "tamimah" of the Banu Riyam and princes of the Jabal al-Akhdar, and survived as such until they were defeated in the war of Jabal Akhdar in 1956.
At the time the Sheikh of the Bani Riyam was Suleiman bin Himyar Al-Nabhani, Lord of the Jebel Akhdar-and descendant of the ancient Nabahina dynasty.
After the war Suleiman bin Himyar fled to Saudi Arabia where he remained in exile until he returned to Oman on Thursday, 28 November 1996, where he lived his remaining days in Muscat until he died on Thursday, 7 May 1998 - most of his kin remain to this day living in Muscat the capital of Oman.

Although the Ya'aruba ruled under the title of Imam, since they originated from the Nabahina kings dynasty they actually continued to rule as kings inheriting the title of Imam through vertical succession, thereby contradicting the Imamate tradition which provides that the Imam must be chosen from amongst the "ahl al-hal wal ‘aqd" transliterated as "those who loosen and bind". (This concept evolved during the period of the Khulafa ar-Rashidoon as a mechanism to choose the leader of the Muslims. The ahl al-hal wal ‘aqd are the leading personalities of society who are knowledgeable and have a proven track record of sincerity and sacrifice. They have no personal or class interests. The person who is appointed leader also does not covet such a position but is seen as most suitable for the job.)

Notes

Citations

Sources


</doc>
<doc id="41072348" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072348" title="Mazaeras mediofasciata">
Mazaeras mediofasciata

Mazaeras mediofasciata is a moth of the family Erebidae. It is found in Peru.


</doc>
<doc id="41072351" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072351" title="Madhubahashini Disanayaka Ratnayaka">
Madhubahashini Disanayaka Ratnayaka

Madhubahashini Disanayaka Ratnayaka is a Sri Lankan academic and author. Her novel "There is Something I Have to Tell You" won the Gratiaen Prize in 2011. She is the Head of English Language at the University of Sri Jayewardenepura.

Madhubahashini Ratnayaka was educated at Ladies' College, Colombo and went on to gain a BA at the University of Allahabad and won a Fulbright scholarship to study for a Masters in American and English Literature at the New York University.

The works she has authored include;









</doc>
<doc id="41072358" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072358" title="The Biggest Game in Town (game show)">
The Biggest Game in Town (game show)

The Biggest Game in Town is the fourth incarnation of the "Bob's Full House" format. The series was a daily interactive quiz show, where three contestants competed to fill in their Bingo-style card, by correctly answering questions covered up a number but incorrect answers causes players to freeze out of the next question, later, a ball being removed from their board. The show was presented by Steve Le Fevre for most of the episodes, Bobby Davro stood in as host for 3 episodes on 15 and 16 November. The show aired 6 episodes a week from Mondays to Fridays with 1 episode airing from Mondays to Thursdays and 2 episodes airing on Fridays. The Mondays to Fridays lunchtime episodes aired at 1:40pm (later 12:00pm from 12 November to 21 December) while the Friday teatime episodes aired at 5:30pm.

Each contestant had a 15 square board (no numbers like the three others). The object of the game was to cover up all 15 squares of their boards. They did that by answering a series of questions correctly. Unlike the other versions, all the questions were based on what was in the news for the past 24 hours. Correct answers placed a ball in a square, while incorrect answers caused a player to be frozen out of the next question, but that's only in the final round; the first two rounds gave opposing player a chance to answer the same question. Later shows took a ball off the board. Each correct answer also revealed a number for the home viewers playing at home. A leaderboard was used and updated to keep track of progress.

In the first round, the contestants tried to cover all four corners of their cards. The first player to do that won £250.

In the second round, contestants race to complete the entire center line. The first player to do that won £500.

In the third & final round, all three players competed to complete their boards and get a Full House or cover up as many squares as they can.
The winner of the main rounds went forward to win the daily jackpot prize of £5,550.

In the bonus round, the winning contestant faced another game board but with pound signs at the beginning. The object of the bonus was to clear all three rows in 45 seconds or less by answering questions correctly. Each row was worth money and requires a contract to be completed and numbers were put up whenever a question was answered. The first row required two correct answers and was worth £50. The center row needed three answers to be completed and was worth £500. And the third and final row asked for four correct answer and was worth and additional £5000. So winning this round was worth £5550.
The series produced two shows on a Friday.

NOTES: 



</doc>
<doc id="41072374" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072374" title="Fedaiellidae">
Fedaiellidae

Fedaiellidae is an extinct family of fossil sea snails, marine gastropod mollusks in the clade Neritimorpha.

Fossils of the genus "Fedaiella" are found in the marine strata of the Quaternary of Japan, the Paleocene of Poland and the Triassic of Italy.



</doc>
<doc id="41072380" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072380" title="Listed buildings in Baddiley">
Listed buildings in Baddiley

Baddiley is a civil parish in Cheshire East, England. It contains nine buildings that are recorded in the National Heritage List for England as designated listed buildings. Of these, one is listed at Grade I, the highest grade, and the others are at Grade II. Apart from the village of Baddily, the parish is entirely rural. The listed buildings consist of the village church, houses and farm buildings. The Llangollen Canal runs through the parish, and the three locks on the canal in the parish are also listed.

Citations

Sources


</doc>
<doc id="41072400" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072400" title="Bluefire Reader">
Bluefire Reader

Bluefire Reader is an e-book reader application for Android, iOS and Windows operating systems that supports white-labelling. It supports the EPUB and PDF formats for digital publications and incorporates facilities for browsing online catalogs, and downloading them directly into the user's personal library. The application features a library that lets users navigate their collection of eBooks, as well as provides a customizable reading experience through configurable font and background color, font size and type, margin size, display brightness, page turn mode, etc. Additionally, the application allows users to import their own books to read them on the go.





</doc>
<doc id="41072406" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072406" title="List of rulers of the Netherlands">
List of rulers of the Netherlands

The Netherlands, or Low Countries, possessed clearly delineated boundaries only after 1500. Still in many respects they demonstrated common traits and underwent similar development that differentiated them from surrounding countries. The social, economic and political similarities evident throughout most of the region stem from the High Middle Ages, when the Scheldt, Maas and Rhine delta area became an important center of trade. Next to Northern Italy, the Low Countries became the most urbanised and prosperous region in Europe.

Its political system exhibited, from relatively early on, a degree of representative government that differed from the more feudal arrangements then existent in much of Europe. Internationally, the region served both as a mediator for and a buffer to the surrounding great powers, France, England, and Germany.

What little is known of the Frisii is provided by a few Roman accounts, whose province Germania Inferior shared a border with the Frisii. Frisii had elected chieftains who led by example rather than by authority. Two Frisii "kings", Malorix and Verritus, visited Rome to meet Nero. The Frisii were bordered on the south by Germanic tribes living on Roman territory, and that would later coalesce into the Frankish confederation in the 3rd century, like the Batavi and the Cananefates. Tacitus mentions Gaius Julius Civilis as leader of the Batavi, and Brinno as leader of Cananefates. The coastal lands of the Frisii, Romans, Batavi and Cananefates were abandoned by c. 400 due to flooding caused by a marine transgression and lay empty for a century.

The Salii (Salian Franks) are one of the peoples who formed the foundation for early (both Northern- and Southern) Dutch culture, society and language since the fall of the Roman empire. After settling within the Roman territories, first in Germania Inferior and later in Gallia Belgica, they developed an organised society that developed the agriculture in regions that had become underpopulated. Merovech (d. 453/457) and Childeric I (c. 440 – 481/482) were Sallian chieftains before Clovis I (c. 466 – c. 511) united all of the Frankish tribes under one ruler. With the Roman Empire as an example, he replaced the form of leadership from a group of royal chieftains to a single king. He moved his court from Tournai in present-day Belgium, to Paris, and created the Frankish Kingdom.

"For all Frankish kings, see: List of Frankish kings"

After the Migration Period, the Frisian Kingdom emerged around 600 AD, north of the Frankish Kingdom. The Frisians consisted of tribes with loose bonds, and were not the same Frisii from Roman times. Under Redbad the Frisian kingship reached its maximum geographic development, covering most of the area of what is now the Netherlands and the coast in northern Germany. In 722 the Frisian land west of the Vlie (what is now Holland, Utrecht and Zeeland came in Frankish hands. In 734, in the Battle of the Boarn, the area west of the Lauwers (nowadays Friesland) resulted in a Frankisch victory and the end of the Frisian kingdom. Only the Frisians east of the Lauwers (Groningen and East Frisia) remained independent. In 772 they lost their independence as well.

In 775, Charles the Great made Frisia officially part of the Frankish Kingdom. The wars ended with the last uprising of the Frisians in 793 and the pacification of them. Counts were appointed by the Frankish rulers. However, Danish Vikings raided Frisia in the end of the 9th century and established Viking rule. After the division of the Frankish Kingdom in West Francia and East Francia, they gained more autonomy.

"See also: 

While the Frisian kingdom had comprised most of the present day Netherlands, the later province of Friesland in the Netherlands was much reduced. Already in the early Middle Ages West-Frisia (Frisia west of the Vlie) was not considered to be a part of Frisia anymore, and came to be known as Holland (present day provinces North and South Holland and Zeeland). Floris II was the first count who restyled his name from count of "West-Frisia", in count of "Holland".

Frisia Proper in medieval time therefore only included the middle and eastern part. The middle part (corresponding to the present day Dutch province of Friesland) was populated by free peasants who successfully resisted all attempts by feudal lords to subdue them, mainly the counts of Holland and the bishops of Utrecht. In the eastern part, local chieftains created their own states (within the Holy Roman Empire) in the late Middle Ages. They became a county after 1446 until 1744, after which it was incorporated within Prussia and later Germany.

The counts of West-Frisia ruled locally in the name of the archbishop of Utrecht, but over time, the counts of Holland came to dominate the bishopric of Utrecht. The archbishop of Utrecht governed the area on behalf of the Holy Roman Emperor, who saw is power diminished by the feudal system in which the counts and dukes ruled almost as sovereigns.

The counts of Holland tried frequently to increase their territory but apart from the acquisition of Zeeland during the 14th century they had no lasting success. Instead it became a part of the mighty medieval dynasties possessions, first Wittelsbach then Valois and thereafter Habsburg.

"For local rulers in other fiefs that consolidated into the Burgundian Netherlands (1384–1482), see:"

Burgundian dukes acquired a continuous territory covering most of modern-day Belgium and the Netherlands. By establishing the States General, Philip the Good centralised power, thereby laying the basis for the Netherlands as a single country with a common interest. The Burgundian dukes - and later the monarchs of Habsburg Spain - appointed stadtholders ("place holders" or deputies) in each one of its estates in the Netherlands. "See: List of stadtholders for the Low Countries provinces"

In the 16th century, Charles V of Habsburg Spain completed the process of consolidation by becoming the sole feudal overlord: Lord of the Netherlands (or Seventeen Provinces). In this political union, the stadtholders served under a governor-general, limiting their power and of the estates. "See: List of governors of the Habsburg Netherlands"

Unhappy with the centralisation of political power to Habsburg Spain, seven northern provinces seceded into the Dutch Republic: Groningen, Frisia, Overijssel, Guelders, Utrecht, Holland and Zeeland. They kept parts of Limburg, Brabant and Flanders during and after the Eighty Years' War as Generality Lands.

Military control was given to a stadtholder who in theory was elected by the States-General of the Netherlands of the now independent Dutch Republic. The function was de facto hereditary in Holland and Zeeland, and held by the Prince of Orange. Drawn from a side branch of the House of Orange, Frisia and Groningen had a different stadtholder, until 1711. The following centuries saw the republic being co-ruled by the grand pensionary of the states-general and the stadtholders, with continuous power struggle between the offices.

"See also List of Grand Pensionaries"

The Southern Netherlands (Artois, Flanders, Brabant, Namur, Hainaut and Luxembourg) were restored to Habsburg Spanish rule. They became known as the Spanish Netherlands, and following the War of the Spanish Succession as the Austrian Netherlands.

"For rulers in the Southern Netherlands after the secession of the northern provinces, see: List of governors of the Habsburg Netherlands"

In the Northern Netherlands, the stadtholdership developed into a hereditary system, with increasing power accumulating to the stadtholder. Dutch Patriots sought a more democratic form of government. With French help they proclaimed the Batavian Republic (1795-1806). In 1806, Napoleon Bonaparte overturned the Batavian Republic. Napoleon established a client Kingdom of Holland with his brother as king (1806-1810). The Netherlands were subsequently annexed into the First French Empire (1810-1813). Stadtholder William V went in exile. The Southern Netherlands (Austrian Netherlands) including Prince-Bishopric of Liège were annexed into the French First Republic (1795–1804) and the First French Empire (1804–1815).

After the First French Empire collapsed, the crown was offered to sovereign prince William VI, son of stadtholder William V. The Congress of Vienna reunited the Northern Netherlands with the Southern Netherlands into the United Kingdom of the Netherlands of which William became king. The newly appointed kings originally had extensive powers. Constitutional reforms in 1848 transformed the Netherlands into a constitutional monarchy under the rule of law, ending the factual rule of the monarchs. The monarchy under the rule of law continues to date "See: List of monarchs of the Netherlands".

The Belgian Revolution led to the secession of the southern part into the Kingdom of Belgium. "See: List of Belgian monarchs"

The non-French speaking part of Luxembourg remained in a personal union with the Netherlands, until William III died, leaving only his daughter Wilhelmina as an heir. Luxembourg allowed inheritance of the crown by males only, hence breaking the personal union. "See: List of monarchs of Luxembourg"



</doc>
<doc id="41072411" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072411" title="444 Combat Support Squadron">
444 Combat Support Squadron

444 Combat Support Squadron is an Air Force unit with the Canadian Forces. Based at CFB Goose Bay, it provides helicopter support to the base operations.

444 Fighter Squadron was formed in March 1953 at CFB St. Hubert, Quebec and moved to CFB Baden-Soellingen in West Germany.

Disbanded 1967, it was re-formed as 444 Tactical Helicopter Squadron at CFB Lahr, West Germany in 1972 as part of Canadian Forces Europe until 1991 and again in CFB Goose Bay in 1993.



</doc>
<doc id="41072414" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072414" title="Final Battle 2013">
Final Battle 2013

Final Battle 2013 was the 12th Final Battle professional wrestling event produced by Ring of Honor (ROH), which occurred on December 14, 2013 at the Hammerstein Ballroom in Manhattan, New York.

"Final Battle 2013" featured eight professional wrestling matches, which involved different wrestlers from pre-existing scripted feuds, plots, and storylines that played out on ROH's television programs. Wrestlers portrayed villains or heroes as they followed a series of events that built tension and culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.




</doc>
<doc id="41072455" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072455" title="1960 NCAA University Division baseball season">
1960 NCAA University Division baseball season

The 1960 NCAA University Division baseball season, play of college baseball in the United States organized by the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) began in the spring of 1960. The season progressed through the regular season and concluded with the 1960 College World Series. The College World Series, held for the fourteenth time in 1960, consisted of one team from each of eight geographical districts and was held in Omaha, Nebraska at Johnny Rosenblatt Stadium as a double-elimination tournament. Minnesota claimed the championship.

This is a partial list of conference champions from the 1960 season. Each of the eight geographical districts chose, by various methods, the team that would represent them in the NCAA Tournament. 10 teams earned automatic bids by winning their conference championship while 16 teams earned at-large selections.
The following is an incomplete list of conference standings:

The 1960 season marked the fourteenth NCAA Baseball Tournament, which culminated with the eight team College World Series. The College World Series was held in Omaha, Nebraska. The eight teams played a double-elimination format, with Minnesota claiming their second championship with a 2–1 win over Southern California in the final.


</doc>
<doc id="41072459" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072459" title="David G. Lawson">
David G. Lawson

David G. Lawson (born October 29, 1946) is an American politician and a Republican member of the Delaware Senate since January 11, 2011, representing District 15.

Lawson enlisted in the United States Air Force and completed a tour of duty in Vietnam before being honorably discharged in 1969. He began a career in law enforcement with the Milford Police Department where he worked as a policeman until transferring to the Delaware State Police in 1973. He retired in 1992 and served as a Delaware State Police Range Instructor and as the Lieutenant of the Special Operations Response Team. Lawson attended Glendale Community College, Delaware Technical Community College, and the Delaware State Police Academy.

Lawson was rebuked by Senate President pro tempore David McBride in April 2017 after Lawson called it "despicable" to allow two Muslims to read from the Quran for the daily invocation. Muslim leaders and others in Delaware condemned Lawson's comments and described them as Islamophobic. Lawson subsequently blamed McBride for holding up legislation that would require courts to use American law, claiming that McBride felt the bill was "anti-Muslim."




</doc>
<doc id="41072469" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072469" title="WIETC">
WIETC

Weihai International Economic & Technical Cooperative Co., Ltd. (abbreviated as WIETC) is a Chinese construction contractor that specializes in overseas construction and engineering projects. Based on international project revenue of $228.8 million in 2012, the company was listed among the 250 largest international contractors by the "Engineering News-Record".

The company has a major presence in building key infrastructure in Congo-Brazzaville including 15 projects, according to a 2009 report. One project is the construction of upgrades to Maya-Maya International Airport in a $160 million project. The upgrades consisted of primarily building two modules of a new terminal for handling domestic and international traffic separately, and work on a new runway, rehabilitation of another runway, and building of a transformer sub-station. The company works with the Congolese government in a public-private partnership to build up the national housing stock, a shortage that is one of the main concerns of poverty alleviation.

In "China Safari", a book published in 2008 about China-Africa relations, the company features prominently in a chapter about Congo-Brazzaville. The author documents a symbiotic relationship between the Congolese minister of construction and housing, Claude Alphonse N'Silou, who needed to get public goods delivered fast to win his parliamentary seat, with WIETC which was able to build infrastructure at a speed that impressed the minister. In the book the minister heaps praise on the company in the following quote: "They come from so far away, yet look how quickly they adapt. They live modestly, as we do, and we all get along very well with one another."


</doc>
<doc id="41072507" url="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41072507" title="Dominic Selwood">
Dominic Selwood

Dominic Selwood, FSA, FRSA, FRHistS (born December 1970) is an English historian, "journalist", author and "barrister". He has written several works of history, historical fiction and historical thrillers, most notably "The Sword of Moses". His background is in medieval history.

Selwood was born in England, and grew up in Salisbury, Wiltshire, in Cyprus and in Germany. He went to school at Edge Grove School and Winchester College, and studied law and French law at the University of Wales.

He was awarded a scholarship to the University of Poitiers, where a chance meeting in a local café with the publisher (and early sponsor of "Private Eye") Anthony Blond led to a collaboration on "Blond's Roman Emperors". His doctoral research on medieval religious and military life, specialising in the Knights Templar and Knights Hospitaller, the two leading military orders of the Crusades was undertaken as a member of New College, Oxford. While conducting his research, he won a research scholarship to the Sorbonne in the history of Byzantium and the Christian Near-East. In 1997, he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society, and he is also a Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.

He was called to the Bar in London by Lincoln's Inn, joined a set of barristers' chambers in the Inner Temple, and was a member of the Western Circuit. He is one of the founders of Arabesque Partners. In a 2014 interview he said that his work as a criminal barrister had been formative for writing thrillers.

Selwood says he is "obsessed with the weirder side of the past", and describes himself as a "deeply fuzzy and laissez-faire English Catholic". He has spoken at schools, universities, literary festivals and the British Museum.

Selwood writes for the UK's "Daily Telegraph" newspaper and is currently a resident history columnist, including the daily 'On this Day' column. His writing has been described as a "must read", "a fascinating change from the usual dusty history books", and "strident debunkery". He has also contributed to "The Spectator", "The Independent", Prospect Magazine", and "The Catholic Herald". Many of these pieces cover the Romans, Anglo-Saxons, the medieval world, the Tudors, and the Reformation.

He has written extensively on the Third Reich, including on Adolf Hitler, Hermann Göring, Rudolf Hess, Reinhard Heydrich, Adolf Eichmann, the formation of the Nazi Party, the Munich Beer Hall putsch, the Berlin Reichstag fire, the Night of the Long Knives, the Nuremberg racial laws, Vichy France, Stalingrad, the Dambusters, the Nuremberg trials and hangings, and area bombing at Guernica, Cologne, and Dresden.

He has written on military intelligence matters like the Enigma cipher and Bletchley Park, SOE operations, and FANY/SOE women agents like Violette Szabo and Noor Khan.

He has also written for the papers on music and musicians, including: George Formby, Django Reinhardt, Robert Johnson, Mahalia Jackson, Johnny Cash, Elvis Presley, Jimi Hendrix, Lemmy, John Bonham of Led Zeppelin, Lynyrd Skynyrd, and the Sex Pistols.

He appears regularly on television and radio as a historical commentator and adviser, including on the news discussing historical topics, and discussion shows like the BBC's "The Big Questions". Documentaries include:


Selwood has argued for King Richard III of England’s guilt in the disappearance of the Princes in the Tower, and has queried the assertion of a 99.999% certainty of the DNA found in the bones in the Leicester car park in 2012 being that of Richard III.

He has criticized the tendency to start lists of English kings and queens with William the Conqueror in 1066, eclipsing the vibrant, intellectual, outward-looking cultures that came before.

He has written on Britain’s religious history. Like Eamon Duffy, he has argued for the widespread popularity and vibrancy of traditional religion in late medieval English society before the Reformation, and highlighted the intense efforts made by the Tudor regime to stamp it out from the top down.

He has argued for the relative unimportance of Magna Carta in the medieval world, and that its status derives from the much later Stuart period. 
He has criticized the popular depiction of Thomas Cromwell in Hilary Mantel's "Wolf Hall" books for blurring historical fiction and fictional history, creating a literary persona for Cromwell that bears no relation to the historical person.

He has written of the ancient and enduring English fascination with magic and pagan celebrations like May Day and Halloween, and has explored the religious background to witchcraft and the medieval witch trials, arguing that the Reformation stoked the popularity of witch-hunts in Europe, resulting in the "brutal and pointless murder of tens of thousands of innocent women".

Selwood has argued for the medieval origin of the Shroud of Turin.

He has defended Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin in his acquisition of the Elgin Marbles or Parthenon sculptures, arguing that he saved them from ongoing destruction in Ottoman Athens. In 2017 he and Tiffany Jenkins won a debate sponsored by the University of Oxford held at the British Museum against Professor Edith Hall and Paul Cartledge arguing for the Parthenon Sculptures to remain in the British Museum.

He has also argued in favour of the existence of Arthur as a warrior who led resistance to the Anglo-Saxon invasions of Britain in the fifth and sixth centuries. Although the historical character of Arthur is ultimately unknowable, the chronicle evidence for him cannot be ignored.

He has also highlighted the service to Britain in World War II of Muslims like the SOE/FANY Noor Inayat Khan, who worked alone behind enemy lines in occupied France, and Spaniards like Juan Pujol García, who was one of MI6's most effective spies.

He has defended the funding of the British Monarchy by the Sovereign Grant, which represents a fraction of the revenue of the historic Crown Estate property portfolio that the monarchy has "given" to the United Kingdom's Parliament. This is despite the fact that, as the monarchy is a constitutional element of the British state, it cannot be said to "own" the Crown Estate, which is - and can only be - property of the state.

He has rejected the notion that geopolitical events since 2014 suggest the Cold War is returning, and argued instead that the amorphous nature of modern hostilities – especially those conducted unattributably in the electronic and information spaces – should be given a new classification of Grey Warfare.





Selwood played bass in London rock band, The Binmen, with Sweet and Slade singer Mal McNulty and Necromandus and Ozzy Osbourne drummer Frank Hall.

He is a lifelong fan of Motörhead, and wrote the obituary of frontman Lemmy in "The Spectator", describing him as "a national treasure – a unique collision of swing and amphetamines".



</doc>
